RCW 49.46.210 Paid sick leave—Authorized purposes—Limitations
(fixture excerpt).

(1) Beginning January 1, 2018, except as provided in RCW 49.46.180,
every employer shall provide each of its employees paid sick leave as
follows:

(a) An employee shall accrue at least one hour of paid sick leave
for every forty hours worked as an employee. An employer may provide
paid sick leave in advance of accrual provided that such front-loading
meets or exceeds the requirements of this section for accrual, use,
and carryover of paid sick leave.

(b) An employee is authorized to use paid sick leave for the
following reasons:

(i) An absence resulting from an employee's mental or physical
illness, injury, or health condition; to accommodate the employee's
need for medical diagnosis, care, or treatment of a mental or physical
illness, injury, or health condition; or an employee's need for
preventive medical care;

(ii) To allow the employee to provide care for a family member
with a mental or physical illness, injury, or health condition; care
of a family member who needs medical diagnosis, care, or treatment of
a mental or physical illness, injury, or health condition; or care for
a family member who needs preventive medical care;

(iii) When the employee's place of business has been closed by
order of a public official for any health-related reason, or when an
employee's child's school or place of care has been closed for such a
health-related reason or after the declaration of an emergency by a
local or state government or agency, or by the federal government; and

(iv) To allow the employee to prepare for, or participate in, any
judicial or administrative immigration proceeding involving the
employee or employee's family member.

(c) An employee is authorized to use paid sick leave for absences
that qualify for leave under the domestic violence leave act, chapter
49.76 RCW.

(d) An employee is entitled to use accrued paid sick leave
beginning on the ninetieth calendar day after the commencement of his
or her employment.

(g)(i) For absences exceeding three days, an employer may require
verification that an employee's use of paid sick leave is for an
authorized purpose.

(i) For each hour of paid sick leave used, an employee shall be
paid the greater of the minimum hourly wage rate established in this
chapter or his or her normal hourly compensation.

(j) Except as provided in (l) of this subsection, accrued and
unused paid sick leave carries over to the following year, but an
employer is not required to allow an employee to carry over paid sick
leave in excess of 40 hours.

(k) Except as provided in (l) of this subsection, an employer is
not required to provide financial or other reimbursement for accrued
and unused paid sick leave to any employee upon the employee's
termination, resignation, retirement, or other separation from
employment. When there is a separation from employment and the
employee is rehired within 12 months of separation by the same
employer, previously accrued unused paid sick leave shall be
reinstated and the previous period of employment shall be counted for
purposes of determining the employee's eligibility to use paid sick
leave under (d) of this subsection.

(2) "Family member" means a child, grandchild, grandparent,
parent, sibling, or spouse of an employee, and also includes any
individual who regularly resides in the employee's home or where the
relationship creates an expectation that the employee care for the
person, and that individual depends on the employee for care.

Current compilation includes 2024 c 356 s 1 (effective January 1,
2025) and 2025 c 170 s 1 (immigration proceedings, effective July 27,
2025). Research fixture. Not an official edition.
