WAC 296-128-620 Paid sick leave accrual (fixture excerpt).

(1) Employees accrue paid sick leave for all hours worked. An
employee must accrue at least one hour of paid sick leave for every
forty hours worked as an employee. Employers may provide employees
with a more generous paid sick leave accrual rate.

(2) Paid sick leave for employees who are employed on or before
January 1, 2018, will accrue for all hours worked beginning on
January 1, 2018. Employees hired after January 1, 2018, begin accruing
paid sick leave upon the commencement of his or her employment.

(3) Employers are not required to allow employees to accrue paid
sick leave for hours paid when not working. For example, employers are
not required to allow employees to accrue paid sick leave during
vacation, paid time off, or while using paid sick leave.

(4) Employers must allow employees to carry over at least forty
hours of accrued, unused paid sick leave to the following year. If an
employee carries over forty hours of unused paid sick leave to the
following year, accrual of paid sick leave in the subsequent year
would be in addition to the forty hours accrued in the previous year
and carried over.

(5) Employers may cap carryover of accrued, unused paid sick leave
to the following year at forty hours. Employers may allow for a more
generous carryover of accrued, unused paid sick leave to the following
year.

(6) "Year," for purposes of this section, means calendar year,
fiscal year, benefit year, employment year, or any other fixed
consecutive twelve-month period established by an employer policy or a
collective bargaining agreement, and used in the ordinary course of
the employer's business for the purpose of calculating wages and
benefits. Unless otherwise established by the employer, the default
definition of "year" is calendar year.

Statutory Authority: RCW 49.46.810. WSR 17-21-092, section
296-128-620, filed 10/17/17, effective 1/1/18. There is no statutory
cap on hours accrued within an accrual year; the forty-hour figure is
the mandatory carryover floor, not an accrual ceiling. Research
fixture. Not an official edition.
