Wisconsin Administrative Code ATCP 134.06. Security deposits. Fixture
excerpt. DATCP residential rental practices rule adopted under Wis.
Stat. § 100.20(2). Current (2) recreated by CR 14-038, Register August
2015 No. 716, eff. 11/1/2015. Snapshot 2026-09-17.

Chapter ATCP 134 note: This chapter is adopted under authority of s.
100.20(2), Stats., and is administered by the Wisconsin department of
agriculture, trade and consumer protection. A person who suffers a
monetary loss because of a violation of this chapter may sue the
violator directly under s. 100.20(5), Stats., and may recover twice the
amount of the loss, together with costs and reasonable attorneys' fees.

ATCP 134.02(11) "Security deposit" means the total of all payments and
deposits given by a tenant to the landlord as security for the
performance of the tenant's obligations, and includes all rent payments
in excess of 1 month's prepaid rent.

ATCP 134.06 Security deposits.

(1) CHECK-IN PROCEDURES; PRE-EXISTING DAMAGES.

(a) Before a landlord accepts a security deposit, or converts an earnest
money deposit to a security deposit under s. ATCP 134.05, the landlord
shall notify the tenant in writing that the tenant may do any of the
following by a specified deadline date which is not less than 7 days
after the start of tenancy:

1. Inspect the dwelling unit and notify the landlord of any preexisting
damages or defects.

2. Request a list of physical damages or defects, if any, charged to the
previous tenant's security deposit. The landlord may require the tenant
to make this request, if any, in writing.

(b) If a tenant makes a request under par. (a) 2., the landlord shall
provide the tenant with a list of all physical damages or defects
charged to the previous tenant's security deposit, regardless of whether
those damages or defects have been repaired. The landlord shall provide
the list within 30 days after the landlord receives the request, or
within 7 days after the landlord notifies the previous tenant of the
security deposit deductions, whichever occurs later.

(2) RETURNING SECURITY DEPOSITS. A landlord shall deliver or mail to a
tenant the full amount of any security deposit paid by the tenant, less
any amounts that may be withheld under sub. (3), within 21 days after
any of the following:

(a) If the tenant vacates the premises on the termination date of the
rental agreement, the date on which the rental agreement terminates.

(b) If the tenant vacates the premises or is evicted before termination
date of the rental agreement, the date on which the tenant's rental
agreement terminates or, if the landlord rerents the premises before the
tenant's rental agreement terminates, the date on which the new tenant's
tenancy begins.

(c) If the tenant vacates the premises or is evicted after the
termination date of the rental agreement, the date on which the landlord
learns that the tenant has vacated the premises or has been removed from
the premises under s. 799.45(2), Stats.

Note: A rent payment in excess of one month's prepaid rent is considered
a "security deposit" as defined under s. ATCP 134.02(11).

(3) SECURITY DEPOSIT WITHHOLDING; RESTRICTIONS.

(a) Standard withholding provisions. When a landlord returns a security
deposit to a tenant after the tenant vacates the premises, the landlord
may withhold from the full amount of the security deposit only amounts
reasonably necessary to pay for any of the following:

1. Except as provided in par. (c), tenant damage, waste, or neglect of
the premises.

2. Unpaid rent for which the tenant is legally responsible, subject to
s. 704.29, Stats.

3. Payment that the tenant owes under the rental agreement for utility
service provided by the landlord but not included in the rent.

4. Payment that the tenant owes for direct utility service provided by a
government-owned utility, to the extent that the landlord becomes liable
for the tenant's nonpayment.

5. Unpaid monthly municipal permit fees assessed against the tenant by a
local unit of government under s. 66.0435(3), Stats., to the extent that
the landlord becomes liable for the tenant's nonpayment.

6. Any other payment for a reason provided in a nonstandard rental
provision document described in par. (b).

(c) Normal wear and tear. This subsection does not authorize a landlord
to withhold any amount from a security deposit for normal wear and tear,
or for other damages or losses for which the tenant cannot reasonably be
held responsible under applicable law.

Note: For example, a landlord may not withhold from tenant's security
deposit for routine painting or carpet cleaning, where there is no
unusual damage caused by tenant abuse.

(4) SECURITY DEPOSIT WITHHOLDING; STATEMENT OF CLAIMS.

(a) If any portion of a security deposit is withheld by a landlord, the
landlord shall, within the time period and in the manner specified under
sub. (2), deliver or mail to the tenant a written statement accounting
for all amounts withheld. The statement shall describe each item of
physical damages or other claim made against the security deposit, and
the amount withheld as reasonable compensation for each item or claim.

(b) No landlord may intentionally misrepresent or falsify any claim
against a security deposit, including the cost of repairs, or withhold
any portion of a security deposit pursuant to an intentionally falsified
claim.

(5) TENANT FAILURE TO LEAVE FORWARDING ADDRESS. A landlord who has
otherwise complied with this section shall not be considered in violation
solely because the postal service has been unable to complete mail
delivery to the person addressed.

Wis. Stat. § 100.20(5): Any person suffering pecuniary loss because of a
violation by any other person of any order issued under this section may
sue for damages therefor in any court of competent jurisdiction and
shall recover twice the amount of such pecuniary loss, together with
costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee. If a court determines that
a landlord has violated ATCP 134.06, it is required to award double
damages and attorney fees. Armour v. Klecker, 169 Wis. 2d 692 (Ct. App.
1992); see Pierce v. Norwick, 202 Wis. 2d 587 (Ct. App. 1996). Whether a
claim was intentionally falsified, and the amount of pecuniary loss
after any offset, is a determination.

Not an official edition.
