Wisconsin Statutes § 704.28. Withholding from and return of security
deposits. Fixture excerpt. 2023-24 Wisconsin Statutes updated through
2025 Wis. Act 247, certified under s. 35.18, published 9-4-26. Snapshot
2026-09-17.

704.28 Withholding from and return of security deposits.

(1) Standard withholding provisions. When a landlord returns a security
deposit to a tenant after the tenant vacates the premises, the landlord
may withhold from the full amount of the security deposit only amounts
reasonably necessary to pay for any of the following:

(a) Except as provided in sub. (3), tenant damage, waste, or neglect of
the premises.

(b) Unpaid rent for which the tenant is legally responsible, subject to
s. 704.29.

(c) Payment that the tenant owes under the rental agreement for utility
service provided by the landlord but not included in the rent.

(d) Payment that the tenant owes for direct utility service provided by
a government-owned utility, to the extent that the landlord becomes
liable for the tenant's nonpayment.

(e) Unpaid monthly municipal permit fees assessed against the tenant by
a local unit of government under s. 66.0435 (3), to the extent that the
landlord becomes liable for the tenant's nonpayment.

(f) Any other payment for a reason provided in a nonstandard rental
provision document described in sub. (2).

(2) Nonstandard rental provisions. Except as provided in sub. (3), a
rental agreement may include one or more nonstandard rental provisions
that authorize the landlord to withhold amounts from the tenant's
security deposit for reasons not specified in sub. (1) (a) to (e). Any
such nonstandard rental provisions shall be provided to the tenant in a
separate written document entitled "NONSTANDARD RENTAL PROVISIONS." The
landlord shall specifically identify each nonstandard rental provision
with the tenant before the tenant enters into a rental agreement with
the landlord. If the tenant signs his or her name, or writes his or her
initials, by a nonstandard rental provision, it is rebuttably presumed
that the landlord has specifically identified the nonstandard rental
provision with the tenant and that the tenant has agreed to it.

(3) Normal wear and tear. This section does not authorize a landlord to
withhold any amount from a security deposit for normal wear and tear, or
for other damages or losses for which the tenant cannot reasonably be
held responsible under applicable law.

(4) Timing for return. A landlord shall deliver or mail to a tenant the
full amount of any security deposit paid by the tenant, less any amounts
that may be withheld under subs. (1) and (2), within 21 days after any
of the following:

(a) If the tenant vacates the premises on the termination date of the
rental agreement, the date on which the rental agreement terminates.

(b) If the tenant vacates the premises or is evicted before the
termination date of the rental agreement, the date on which the tenant's
rental agreement terminates or, if the landlord rerents the premises
before the tenant's rental agreement terminates, the date on which the
new tenant's tenancy begins.

(c) If the tenant vacates the premises or is evicted after the
termination date of the rental agreement, the date on which the landlord
learns that the tenant has vacated the premises or has been removed from
the premises under s. 799.45 (2).

(5) Application to residential tenancies. This section applies to
residential tenancies only.

History: 2011 a. 143 (effective March 31, 2012); 2013 a. 76.
Cross-reference: See also s. ATCP 134.06, Wis. adm. code.

There is no statewide dollar cap on an ordinary residential security
deposit in ch. 704. Whether an amount withheld was "reasonably
necessary," and whether damage is normal wear and tear, is a
determination.

Not an official edition.
