Rhode Island General Laws § 34-18-19. Security deposits.
Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. Fixture excerpt of the current
compiled text as published by the Rhode Island General Assembly.

(a) A landlord may not demand or receive a security deposit, however
denominated, in an amount or value in excess of one month's periodic rent.

(b) Upon termination of the tenancy, the amount of security deposit due
to the tenant shall be the entire amount given by the tenant as a security
deposit, minus any amount of unpaid accrued rent, the amount due, if any,
for reasonable cleaning expenses, the amount due, if any, for reasonable
trash disposal expenses and the amount of physical damages to the premises,
other than ordinary wear and tear, that the landlord has suffered by reason
of the tenant's noncompliance with § 34-18-24, all as itemized by the
landlord in a written notice delivered to the tenant. The landlord shall
deliver the notice, together with the amount of the security deposit due to
the tenant, within twenty (20) days after the later of either termination
of the tenancy, delivery of possession, or the tenant's providing the
landlord with a forwarding address for the purpose of receiving the
security deposit.

(c) If the landlord fails to comply with subsection (b), the tenant may
recover the amount due him or her, together with damages in an amount equal
to twice the amount wrongfully withheld, and reasonable attorney fees.

(d) This section does not preclude the landlord or tenant from recovering
other damages to which he or she may be entitled under this chapter.

(e) This section does not preclude any landlord who rents a furnished
apartment from demanding or receiving a furniture security deposit if the
replacement value of the furniture being furnished by the landlord valued
at the time the lease is executed is five thousand dollars ($5,000) or
greater, in which instance the landlord may charge a separate furniture
security deposit of up to one month's periodic rent.

(f) Upon termination of the tenancy, the amount of furniture security
deposit due to the tenant shall be the entire amount given by the tenant as
a furniture security deposit, minus the amount due, if any, for reasonable
cleaning expenses and repair and the amount of physical damages to the
furniture, other than ordinary wear and tear. The landlord shall deliver
the notice, together with the amount of the furniture security deposit due
to the tenant, within twenty (20) days after the later of either
termination of the tenancy, delivery of possession, or the tenant's
providing the landlord with a forwarding address for the purpose of
receiving the furniture security deposit.

(g) In the event the landlord transfers his or her interest in the
premises, the holder of the landlord's interest in the premises at the time
of the termination of the tenancy is bound by this section.

(h) No rental agreement shall contain any waiver of the provisions of
this section.

History: P.L. 1986, ch. 200, § 2; P.L. 2015, ch. 125, § 1; P.L. 2015,
ch. 134, § 1; P.L. 2018, ch. 229, § 1; P.L. 2018, ch. 260, § 1. The 2018
acts (enacted 2018-07-02, effective upon passage) added the furniture
deposit provisions. Not an official edition.
