Arkansas Code § 16-66-210 (fixture excerpt).
Homestead Exemption Act of 1981.

(a) This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Homestead
Exemption Act of 1981".

(b) The homestead of any resident of this state who is married or
the head of a family shall not be subject to the lien of any judgment, or
decree of any court, or to sale under execution or other process thereon,
except such as may be rendered for the purchase money or for specific
liens, laborers' or mechanics' liens for improving the homestead, or for
taxes, or against executors, administrators, guardians, receivers,
attorneys for moneys collected by them, and other trustees of an express
trust for moneys due from them, in their fiduciary capacity.

(c)(1) The homestead outside any city, town, or village, owned and
occupied as a residence, shall consist of no more than one hundred sixty
(160) acres of land, with the improvements thereon, to be selected by the
owner. The homestead shall not exceed in value the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500), but, in no event shall the homestead be
reduced to less than eighty (80) acres, without regard to value.

(2) The homestead in any city, town, or village, owned and
occupied as a residence, shall consist of not more than one (1) acre of
land, with the improvements thereon, to be selected by the owner. The
homestead shall not exceed the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500) in value, but in no event shall the homestead be reduced to less
than one-quarter (1/4) of an acre of land, without regard to value.

(3) Any homestead outside any city, town, or village, owned
and occupied as a residence, which is annexed to or made part of an
incorporated city or town within the State of Arkansas, shall retain its
exemption under subdivision (c)(1) of this section as long as the land on
which it is located remains rural in nature and has a significant
agricultural use.

(d) The homestead provided for in this section shall inure to the
benefit of the minor children, under the exemptions provided in this
section, after the demise of the parents.

(e) The homestead exemption provided in this section may be claimed
by a member of a limited liability company that owns the homestead if:

(1) There are two (2) members of the limited liability
company, and the members are a married couple; or

(2) There is only one (1) member of the limited liability
company, and that member is a natural person who is married or the head
of a family.

Acreage and the two thousand five hundred dollar figure are mechanical.
Homestead character, head-of-family status, rural-in-nature after
annexation, and excepted creditors remain determinations.
Not an official edition.
