Iowa Code section 562A.12 (Iowa Code 2026 fixture excerpt).
Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Law, rental deposits.
Official compilation: Iowa Legislature, www.legis.iowa.gov.
Last listed acts in this section: 93 Acts, ch 154, §13; 2010 Acts,
ch 1017, §2, 11; 2013 Acts, ch 30, §261; 2013 Acts, ch 97, §4;
2014 Acts, ch 1026, §123.

562A.12 Rental deposits.

1. A landlord shall not demand or receive as a security deposit an
amount or value in excess of two months' rent.

2. All rental deposits shall be held by the landlord for the tenant,
who is a party to the agreement, in a bank or savings and loan
association or credit union which is insured by an agency of the
federal government. Rental deposits shall not be commingled with
the personal funds of the landlord. Notwithstanding the provisions of
chapter 543B, all rental deposits may be held in a trust account,
which may be a common trust account and which may be an
interest-bearing account. Any interest earned on a rental deposit
during the first five years of a tenancy shall be the property of the
landlord.

3. a. A landlord shall, within thirty days from the date of
termination of the tenancy and receipt of the tenant's mailing address
or delivery instructions, return the rental deposit to the tenant or
furnish to the tenant a written statement showing the specific reason
for withholding of the rental deposit or any portion thereof. If the
rental deposit or any portion of the rental deposit is withheld for the
restoration of the dwelling unit, the statement shall specify the nature
of the damages. The landlord may withhold from the rental deposit
only such amounts as are reasonably necessary for the following
reasons:
(1) To remedy a tenant's default in the payment of rent or of other
funds due to the landlord pursuant to the rental agreement.
(2) To restore the dwelling unit to its condition at the commencement
of the tenancy, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
(3) To recover expenses incurred in acquiring possession of the
premises from a tenant who does not act in good faith in failing to
surrender and vacate the premises upon noncompliance with the
rental agreement and notification of such noncompliance pursuant
to this chapter.
b. In an action concerning the rental deposit, the burden of proving,
by a preponderance of the evidence, the reason for withholding all
or any portion of the rental deposit shall be on the landlord.

4. A landlord who fails to provide a written statement within thirty
days of termination of the tenancy and receipt of the tenant's mailing
address or delivery instructions shall forfeit all rights to withhold any
portion of the rental deposit. If no mailing address or instructions are
provided to the landlord within one year from the termination of the
tenancy the rental deposit shall revert to the landlord and the tenant
will be deemed to have forfeited all rights to the rental deposit.

7. The bad-faith retention of a deposit by a landlord, or any portion
of the rental deposit, in violation of this section shall subject the
landlord to punitive damages not to exceed twice the monthly rental
payment in addition to actual damages.

8. The court may, in any action on a rental agreement, award
reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing party.

The thirty-day clock does not start until both termination of the
tenancy and receipt of the tenant's mailing address or delivery
instructions. The punitive cap is twice the monthly rent, not twice
the deposit. Whether retention was in bad faith is a determination.
Not an official edition.
