Connecticut General Statutes § 31-57s (fixture excerpt).
Employer requirement to provide paid sick leave; accrual, use, and rate
of pay, as amended by P.A. 24-8, effective January 1, 2025.

(a) Each employer shall provide paid sick leave annually to each of such
employer's employees in the state. Such paid sick leave shall accrue
(1) (A) beginning (i) January 1, 2025, for an employee of an employer that
employs twenty-five or more individuals in the state, (ii) January 1, 2026,
for an employee of an employer that employs eleven or more individuals in
the state, or (iii) January 1, 2027, for an employee of an employer that
employs one or more individuals in the state, or (B) for an employee hired
after said dates, beginning on the employee's first date of employment,
(2) at a rate of one hour of paid sick leave for each thirty hours worked
by an employee, and (3) in one-hour increments up to a maximum of forty
hours per year. An employer may provide its employees with a greater amount
of paid sick leave or provide paid sick leave at a faster rate than
required by this subsection. Each employee shall be entitled to carry over
up to forty unused accrued hours of paid sick leave from the current year
to the following year, but no employee shall be entitled to use more than
the maximum number of accrued hours, as described in subdivision (3) of
this subsection, in any year. In lieu of any carry-over of unused paid
sick leave from the current year to the following year, an employer may
provide an employee with an amount of paid sick leave that meets or exceeds
the requirements of this subsection and is available for the employee's
immediate use at the beginning of the following year.

(b) An employee shall be entitled to the use of any accrued paid sick
leave on and after the one hundred twentieth calendar day of such
employee's employment.

(f) An employee who is exempt from overtime requirements under the
provisions of 29 USC 213(a)(1), as amended from time to time, shall be
presumed to work forty hours each work week for purposes of paid sick
leave accrual, except each such employee, whose normal work week is less
than forty hours, shall accrue paid sick leave based upon the hours worked
in such normal work week.

Accrual arithmetic is mechanical. Covered-employee status is not encoded
as a Boolean. Not an official edition.
