Mississippi Code Annotated section 89-8-39 (fixture excerpt).
Residential evictions; order to vacate; warrant for removal. Created by
Laws 2022, ch. 501 (SB 2461); current text after Laws 2025, ch. (SB 2328).

(1) If a judgment of possession is granted to the landlord, either after a
hearing or by default judgment, then the judge shall order the tenant to
vacate the premises in seven (7) days from the date of the judgment, unless
the court finds that a shorter or longer period of time is justified because
of an emergency or other compelling circumstances. Circumstances that
justify setting the move-out date less than seven (7) days from the date of
the judgment include, but are not limited to:

(a) The tenant has committed a substantial violation of the rental agreement
or of this chapter that materially affects health or safety; or

(b) The tenant poses an immediate and significant risk of damage to the
premises or of harm or injury to persons on the premises.

Prior to the court-ordered move-out date, the tenant shall have the same
access to the premises as previously allowed under the terms of the rental
agreement. If the tenant moves out by the date ordered by the court, leaving
personal property behind, then the landlord may dispose of such abandoned
property without further notice.

(2) After the court-ordered move-out date, the landlord may request a
warrant for removal. Upon such request and the payment of applicable fees,
the judge shall, except as otherwise prohibited under subsection (4) of this
section, immediately issue a warrant to the sheriff or any constable of the
county in which the premises, or some part thereof, are situated,
immediately commanding the sheriff or constable to remove all persons from
the premises, and to put the landlord into full possession thereof. The
warrant of removal shall not be considered executed by law enforcement
posting the warrant of removal on the door of the premises. Law enforcement
must remove all occupants from the premises and place the landlord into
physical possession of the premises.

(3) During the seventy-two (72) hours after the warrant for removal has been
executed, the landlord shall allow the tenant reasonable access to the
premises to enable the tenant to remove the tenant's personal property,
including any manufactured home.

(4) In cases in which the possession judgment is based solely on the
tenant's nonpayment of rent, the judge shall not issue a warrant for removal
if, by the court-ordered move-out date, the tenant has paid in full all
unpaid rent and other sums awarded to the landlord in the judgment, or if
after such date the landlord has accepted payment of such amounts. A
landlord has an obligation of good faith to accept full payment if so
tendered.

Whether the landlord is entitled to a judgment of possession, whether an
emergency justifies a different move-out date, and whether tender of the
judgment amount occurred, remain determinations. Self-help lockouts are
outside this fixture. Not an official edition.
