Mississippi Code Annotated section 89-8-13 (fixture excerpt).
Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. Current text after Laws 2022, ch. 501
(SB 2461). House Bill 499 (2026 Regular Session), which would have shortened
the fourteen-day cure period to seven days, died in committee on
February 3, 2026.

(1) If there is a material noncompliance by the tenant with the rental
agreement or the obligations imposed by Section 89-8-25, the landlord may
terminate the tenancy as set forth herein or resort to any other remedy at
law or in equity not prohibited by this chapter.

(3) The nonbreaching party may deliver a notice to the party in breach in
writing, or by email or text message if the breaching party has agreed in
writing to be notified by email or text message, specifying the acts and
omissions constituting the breach and that the rental agreement will
terminate upon a date not less than fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
notice if the breach is not remedied within a reasonable time not in excess
of fourteen (14) days; and the rental agreement shall terminate and the
tenant shall surrender possession as provided in the notice subject to the
following:

(a) If the breach is remediable by repairs, the payment of damages, or
otherwise, and the breaching party adequately remedies the breach before the
date specified in the notice, the rental agreement shall not terminate;

(b) In the absence of a showing of due care by the breaching party, if
substantially the same act or omission which constituted a prior
noncompliance of which notice was given recurs within six (6) months, the
nonbreaching party may terminate the rental agreement upon at least fourteen
(14) days' notice in writing, or by email or text message if the breaching
party has agreed in writing to be notified by email or text message,
specifying the breach and the date of termination of the rental agreement.

(5)(a) If the material noncompliance by the tenant is the nonpayment of rent
pursuant to the rental agreement, the landlord may deliver a notice in
writing or by email or text message if the breaching party has agreed in
writing to be notified by email or text message, specifying the rental
agreement will terminate if payment of such rent is not made within three
(3) days.

(b) Any judge presiding over a hearing in which a landlord seeks to evict a
tenant for the nonpayment of rent shall abide by the provisions of the
rental agreement that was signed by the landlord and the defaulting tenant.

(6) The parties' obligations regarding a tenant's personal property,
including any manufactured home, shall be governed by Section 89-8-39.

Whether a particular nonpayment, material noncompliance, or adequate remedy
occurred remains a determination. Not an official edition.
