Nevada Revised Statutes § 118A.242 (fixture excerpt).
Revision date on the Nevada Legislature compilation: 4/15/2026.

NRS 118A.242 Security deposit: Limitation on amount or value; surety bond
in lieu of security deposit; duties and liability of landlord; damages;
disputing itemized accounting of security deposit; prohibited provisions.

1. The landlord may not demand or receive a security deposit or a surety
bond, or a combination thereof, including the last month’s rent, whose total
amount or value exceeds 3 months’ periodic rent.

2. In lieu of paying all or part of the security deposit required by the
landlord, a tenant may, if the landlord consents, purchase a surety bond to
secure the tenant’s obligation to the landlord under the rental agreement to:

(a) Remedy any default of the tenant in the payment of rent.

(b) Repair damages to the premises other than normal wear and tear.

(c) Clean the dwelling unit.

3. The landlord:

(a) Is not required to accept a surety bond purchased by the tenant in
lieu of paying all or part of the security deposit; and

(b) May not require a tenant to purchase a surety bond in lieu of paying
all or part of the security deposit.

4. Upon termination of the tenancy by either party for any reason, the
landlord may claim of the security deposit or surety bond, or a combination
thereof, only such amounts as are reasonably necessary to remedy any default
of the tenant in the payment of rent, to repair damages to the premises caused
by the tenant other than normal wear and to pay the reasonable costs of
cleaning the premises. The landlord shall provide the tenant with an itemized,
written accounting of the disposition of the security deposit or surety bond,
or a combination thereof, and return any remaining portion of the security
deposit to the tenant no later than 30 days after the termination of the
tenancy by handing it to the tenant personally at the place where the rent is
paid, or by mailing it to the tenant at the tenant’s present address or, if
that address is unknown, at the tenant’s last known address.

5. If a tenant disputes an item contained in an itemized written accounting
received from a landlord pursuant to subsection 4, the tenant may send a
written response disputing the item to the surety. If the tenant sends the
written response within 30 days after receiving the itemized written
accounting, the surety shall not report the claim of the landlord to a credit
reporting agency unless the surety obtains a judgment against the tenant.

6. If the landlord fails or refuses to return the remainder of a security
deposit within 30 days after the end of a tenancy, the landlord is liable to
the tenant for damages:

(a) In an amount equal to the entire security deposit; and

(b) For a sum to be fixed by the court of not more than the amount of the
entire security deposit.

7. In determining the sum, if any, to be awarded under paragraph (b) of
subsection 6, the court shall consider:

(a) Whether the landlord acted in good faith;

(b) The course of conduct between the landlord and the tenant; and

(c) The degree of harm to the tenant caused by the landlord’s conduct.

8. Except for an agreement which provides for a nonrefundable charge for
cleaning, in a reasonable amount, no rental agreement may contain any
provision characterizing any security deposit under this section as
nonrefundable or any provision waiving or modifying a tenant’s rights under
this section. Any such provision is void as contrary to public policy.

9. The claim of a tenant to a security deposit to which the tenant is
entitled under this chapter takes precedence over the claim of any creditor of
the landlord.

(Added to NRS by 1977, 1334; A 1981, 1184; 1985, 1414; 2009, 488; 2021, 400)

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
