Texas Labor Code chapter 61, Payment of Wages (fixture excerpt).
Texas Payday Law. Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.
Text as currently published; later amendments noted where they change this slice.

Sec. 61.001. DEFINITIONS. In this chapter:
(2) "Day" means a calendar day.
(3) "Employee" means an individual who is employed by an
employer for compensation. The term does not include:
(A) a person related to the employer or the employer's
spouse within the first or second degree by consanguinity or
affinity, as determined under Chapter 573, Government Code; or
(B) an independent contractor.
(7) "Wages" means compensation owed by an employer for:
(A) labor or services rendered by an employee, whether
computed on a time, task, piece, commission, or other basis; and
(B) vacation pay, holiday pay, sick leave pay, parental
leave pay, or severance pay owed to an employee under a written
agreement with the employer or under a written policy of the
employer.

Sec. 61.003. GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES EXCLUDED. This chapter
does not apply to the United States, this state, or a political
subdivision of this state.

Sec. 61.011. PAYDAYS.
(a) An employer shall pay wages to each employee who is
exempt from the overtime pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. Section 201 et seq.) at least once a month.
(b) An employer shall pay wages to an employee other than an
employee covered by Subsection (a) at least twice a month.
(c) If wages are paid twice a month, each pay period must
consist as nearly as possible of an equal number of days.

Sec. 61.012. DESIGNATION OF PAYDAYS; NOTICE.
(a) An employer shall designate paydays in accordance with
Section 61.011.
(b) If an employer fails to designate paydays, the employer's
paydays are the first and 15th day of each month.
(c) An employer shall post, in conspicuous places in the
workplace, notices indicating the paydays.

Sec. 61.014. PAYMENT AFTER TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
(a) An employer shall pay in full an employee who is
discharged from employment not later than the sixth day after the
date the employee is discharged.
(b) An employer shall pay in full an employee who leaves
employment other than by discharge not later than the next
regularly scheduled payday.

Sec. 61.015. PAYMENT OF COMMISSIONS AND BONUSES.
(a) Wages paid on commission and bonuses are due according
to the terms of:
(1) an agreement between the employee and employer; or
(2) an applicable collective bargaining agreement.
(b) An employer shall pay wages paid on commission and
bonuses to an employee in a timely manner as required for the
payment of other wages under this chapter.

Sec. 61.018. DEDUCTION FROM WAGES. An employer may not
withhold or divert any part of an employee's wages unless the
employer:
(1) is ordered to do so by a court of competent
jurisdiction;
(2) is authorized to do so by state or federal law; or
(3) has written authorization from the employee to deduct
part of the wages for a lawful purpose.

Sec. 61.051. FILING WAGE CLAIM.
(a) An employee who is not paid wages as prescribed by this
chapter may file a wage claim with the commission in accordance
with this subchapter.
(c) A wage claim must be filed not later than the 180th day
after the date the wages claimed became due for payment. The
180-day deadline is a matter of jurisdiction.

Sec. 61.053. BAD FAITH; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY.
(a) If the commission examiner, a wage claim appeal tribunal,
or the commission determines that an employer acted in bad faith in
not paying wages as required by this chapter, the examiner,
tribunal, or commission, in addition to ordering the payment of the
wages, may assess an administrative penalty against the employer.
(c) An administrative penalty assessed under this section
may not exceed the lesser of:
(1) the amount of the wages in question or claimed; or
(2) $1,000.

Sec. 61.054. REQUEST FOR HEARING ON PRELIMINARY ORDER.
(b) The request for hearing must be made in writing not later
than the 21st day after the date the commission examiner mails the
notice of the preliminary wage determination order.

Research fixture for Fidryn. Not legal advice. Not an official edition.
