Virginia Code § 55.1-1226. Security deposits. (fixture excerpt).
LIS Code of Virginia, Title 55.1, Chapter 12, retrieved 2026-09-17.

A. No landlord may demand or receive a security deposit, however
denominated, in an amount or value in excess of two months' periodic
rent. Upon termination of the tenancy or the date the tenant vacates
the dwelling unit, whichever occurs last, such security deposit may be
applied by the landlord solely to (i) the payment of accrued rent,
including the reasonable charges for late payment of rent specified in
the rental agreement; (ii) the payment of the amount of damages that
the landlord has suffered by reason of the tenant's noncompliance with
§ 55.1-1227, less reasonable wear and tear; (iii) other damages or
charges as provided in the rental agreement; or (iv) actual damages
for breach of the rental agreement pursuant to § 55.1-1251. The
security deposit and any deductions, damages, and charges shall be
itemized by the landlord in a written notice given to the tenant,
together with any amount due to the tenant, within 45 days after the
termination date of the tenancy or the date the tenant vacates the
dwelling unit, whichever occurs last.

C. The landlord may withhold a reasonable portion of the security
deposit to cover an amount of the balance due on the water, sewer, or
other utility account that is an obligation of the tenant to a
third-party provider under the rental agreement, if the landlord has
given prior written notice. If the tenant provides written
confirmation of payment of the final utility bill after the expiration
of the 45-day period, the landlord shall refund any remaining balance
within 10 days following receipt of such written confirmation.

E. The landlord shall notify the tenant in writing of any deductions
provided by this section to be made from the tenant's security deposit
during the course of the tenancy. Such notification shall be made
within 30 days of the date of the determination of the deduction.
If the landlord willfully fails to comply with this section, the court
shall order the return of the security deposit to the tenant, together
with actual damages and reasonable attorney fees, unless the tenant
owes rent to the landlord, in which case the court shall order an
amount equal to the security deposit credited against the rent due to
the landlord. In the event that damages to the premises exceed the
amount of the security deposit and require the services of a
third-party contractor, the landlord shall give written notice to the
tenant advising him of that fact within the 45-day period required by
subsection A. If notice is given as prescribed in this subsection, the
landlord shall have an additional 15-day period to provide an
itemization of the damages and the cost of repair.

G. Upon request by the landlord to a tenant to vacate, or within five
days after receipt of notice by the landlord of the tenant's intent to
vacate, the landlord shall provide written notice to the tenant of the
tenant's right to be present at the landlord's inspection of the
dwelling unit. If the tenant desires to be present, he shall so advise
the landlord in writing, who in turn shall notify the tenant of the
date and time of the inspection, which must be made within 72 hours of
delivery of possession.

B. If a tenant fails to provide a forwarding address, upon the
expiration of one year from the date of the end of the 45-day time
period, the landlord may remit such sum to the State Treasurer as
unclaimed property.

Last cited amendment: 2023, cc. 433, 434. Interest on deposits is not
required. Willful noncompliance is a court determination, not a
Boolean. Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
