Massachusetts General Laws chapter 175M, sections 2 and 3
(fixture excerpt). Family and medical leave.

§ 2. Leave requirements (excerpt).

(a)(1) Family leave shall be available to any covered individual
for: (i) bonding with the covered individual's child during the
first 12 months after birth or placement for adoption or foster
care; (ii) a qualifying exigency arising out of a family member's
active duty or impending call to active duty in the Armed Forces;
or (iii) care for a family member who is a covered servicemember.

(a)(2) Medical leave shall be available to any covered individual
with a serious health condition that makes the covered individual
unable to perform the functions of the covered individual's
position. This provision shall be construed consistent with the
equivalent provision of the federal Family and Medical Leave Act
of 1993, 29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)(D).

(b) Family leave shall be available to any covered individual to
care for a family member with a serious health condition.

(c)(1) A covered individual shall not be eligible for more than
12 weeks of family leave in a benefit year; provided, however,
that a covered individual taking family leave in order to care for
a covered servicemember shall not be eligible for more than
26 weeks of family leave in a benefit year. A covered individual
shall not be eligible for medical leave for more than 20 weeks in
a benefit year. A covered individual shall not take more than
26 weeks, in the aggregate, of family and medical leave under this
chapter in the same benefit year. Medical leave during pregnancy
or recovery from childbirth immediately followed by family leave
waives the 7 day waiting period for family leave.

(e) An employee who has taken family or medical leave shall be
restored to the employee's previous position or to an equivalent
position, with the same status, pay, employment benefits,
length-of-service credit and seniority as of the date of leave.

§ 1 (definition used here). "Serious health condition" means an
illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental condition that
involves (i) inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential
medical facility; or (ii) continuing treatment by a health care
provider. Whether a condition is a serious health condition is a
determination, not a Boolean.

§ 3. Weekly benefit (excerpt).

(a) No family or medical leave benefits shall be payable during
the first 7 calendar days of such leave.

(b)(1) The portion of the covered individual's average weekly wage
that is equal to or less than 50 per cent of the state average
weekly wage shall be replaced at a rate of 80 per cent; the
portion that is more than 50 per cent of the state average weekly
wage shall be replaced at a rate of 50 per cent.

(b)(2) The maximum weekly benefit amount shall be 64 per cent of
the state average weekly wage, adjusted annually. For benefit year
2026 the department published a state average weekly wage of
$1,922.48 and a maximum weekly benefit of $1,230.39.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
