Idaho Code section 44-2704 (fixture excerpt).
Added 2008, ch. 295; amended 2016, ch. 281; amended 2018, ch. 349
(repealing the 2016 irreparable-harm presumption). Current through the
2025 legislative update posted by the Idaho Legislature.

44-2704. RESTRICTION OF DIRECT COMPETITION -- REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTIONS.
(1) Under no circumstances shall a provision of such agreement or
covenant, as set forth herein, establish a postemployment restriction of
direct competition that exceeds a period of eighteen (18) months from the
time of the key employee's or key independent contractor's termination
unless consideration, in addition to employment or continued employment, is
given to a key employee or key independent contractor. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to limit a party's ability to otherwise protect
trade secrets or other information deemed proprietary or confidential.
(2) It shall be a rebuttable presumption that an agreement or covenant
with a postemployment term of eighteen (18) months or less is reasonable as
to duration.
(3) It shall be a rebuttable presumption that an agreement or covenant is
reasonable as to geographic area if it is restricted to the geographic
areas in which the key employee or key independent contractor provided
services or had a significant presence or influence.
(4) It shall be a rebuttable presumption that an agreement or covenant is
reasonable as to type of employment or line of business if it is limited to
the type of employment or line of business conducted by the key employee or
key independent contractor, as defined in section 44-2702, Idaho Code,
while working for the employer.
(5) It shall be a rebuttable presumption that an employee or independent
contractor who is among the highest paid five percent (5%) of the
employer's employees or independent contractors is a "key employee" or a
"key independent contractor." To rebut such presumption, an employee or
independent contractor must show that it has no ability to adversely affect
the employer's legitimate business interests.

Idaho has no fixed dollar salary floor for noncompetes. The 18-month figure
and the 5 percent pay rank are mechanical; whether a restraint protects a
legitimate business interest, whether the worker is actually key, and
whether extra consideration supports a longer term are determinations.
Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
