Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 27 (fixture excerpt).
Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative
session. Enacted 2008, ch. 295. Section 44-2702 amended 2018, ch. 349.

44-2701. AGREEMENTS AND COVENANTS PROTECTING LEGITIMATE BUSINESS INTERESTS.
A key employee or key independent contractor may enter into a written
agreement or covenant that protects the employer's legitimate business
interests and prohibits the key employee or key independent contractor from
engaging in employment or a line of business that is in direct competition
with the employer's business after termination of employment, and the same
shall be enforceable, if the agreement or covenant is reasonable as to its
duration, geographical area, type of employment or line of business, and
does not impose a greater restraint than is reasonably necessary to protect
the employer's legitimate business interests.

44-2702. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(1) "Key employees" and "key independent contractors" shall include those
employees or independent contractors who, by reason of the employer's
investment of time, money, trust, exposure to the public, or exposure to
technologies, intellectual property, business plans, business processes and
methods of operation, customers, vendors or other business relationships
during the course of employment, have gained a high level of inside
knowledge, influence, credibility, notoriety, fame, reputation or public
persona as a representative or spokesperson of the employer and, as a
result, have the ability to harm or threaten an employer's legitimate
business interests.
(2) "Legitimate business interests" shall include, but not be limited to,
an employer's goodwill, technologies, intellectual property, business
plans, business processes and methods of operation, customers, customer
lists, customer contacts and referral sources, vendors and vendor contacts,
financial and marketing information, and trade secrets as that term is
defined by chapter 8, title 48, Idaho Code.

44-2703. CONSTRUCTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
To the extent any such agreement or covenant is found to be unreasonable
in any respect, a court shall limit or modify the agreement or covenant as
it shall determine necessary to reflect the intent of the parties and
render it reasonable in light of the circumstances in which it was made and
specifically enforce the agreement or covenant as limited or modified.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
