Oklahoma Statutes Title 40, section 165.2 (fixture excerpt).
Cite as: 40 O.S. § 165.2 (OSCN 2026). Last amended Laws 2022,
SB 1345, c. 156, § 2, eff. November 1, 2022.

Every employer in this state shall pay all wages due their
employees, other than exempt employees and employees of nonprivate
foundations qualified pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 509(a)(1) and 26 U.S.C.
170(b)(1)(A)(vi), at least twice each calendar month on regular
paydays designated in advance by the employer. State, county and
municipal employees, exempt employees, school district employees,
technology center school district employees and employees of
nonprivate foundations qualified pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 509(a)(1) and
26 U.S.C. 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) shall be paid a minimum of once each
calendar month. The amount due such employees shall be paid in
lawful money of the United States including payment by electronic
means, and the employee shall not be deemed to have waived any right
or rights mentioned in this section because of any contract to the
contrary. Each employer in this state, in its discretion, may pay
all wages due to an employee by deposit on the payday at a financial
institution of the employee's choice or, if the employee does not
consent or designate a financial institution, to a payroll card
account. With each payment of wages earned by such employee, the
employer shall issue to such employee a brief itemized statement of
any and all deductions therefrom. An interval of not more than
eleven (11) days may elapse between the end of the pay period worked
and the regular payday designated by the employer. The employer
shall be allowed three (3) days after such payday in which to comply
with this section.

No such employer shall issue, in payment of or as evidence of
indebtedness due an employee any check, cashier's check, draft, time
check, store order, scrip, or other acknowledgment of indebtedness
unless the same is payable or redeemable upon demand without
discount and for face value in lawful money of the United States.
If an employer pays an employee with a check which is subsequently
returned to the employee or an agent thereof by reason of the
refusal of the bank upon which such check was drawn to honor the
same due to insufficient funds or a stop payment notice, the
employer shall reimburse the employee for any fees or costs incurred
by the employee due to the refusal to honor the check within
fourteen (14) days of the employer's notice of the bank's refusal to
honor the check.

40 O.S. § 165.2a. The Commissioner of Labor or designee is hereby
authorized to assess an administrative fine of Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) against an employer operating in this state who is found
to have violated Sections 165.1 through 165.11 of Title 40 of the
Oklahoma Statutes if such violations occur on two or more occasions
within any six-month period.

40 O.S. § 165.5. Except as hereinafter provided under Section 10,
no provision of this act shall in any way be contravened or set
aside by private agreement.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
