Hawaii Revised Statutes § 521-44. Security deposits. (fixture excerpt).
Residential Landlord-Tenant Code. Last amended by L 2015, c 29, § 3.
Official compilation at capitol.hawaii.gov, retrieved 2026-09-17.
2025 and 2026 bills proposing to reduce the pet-deposit cap were not
enacted as of this snapshot.

(b) The landlord may require, as a condition of a rental agreement, a
security deposit to be paid by or for the tenant for the items in
subsection (a) and no others in an amount not in excess of a sum equal
to one month's rent, plus an amount agreed upon by the landlord and
tenant to compensate the landlord for any damages caused by any pet
animal allowed to reside in the premises pursuant to the rental
agreement; provided that the additional security deposit amount for a
pet animal under this subsection:

(1) Shall not be required:
    (A) From any tenant who does not have a pet animal that resides
        in the premises; or
    (B) For an assistance animal that is a reasonable accommodation
        for a tenant with a disability pursuant to section 515-3; and
(2) Shall be in an amount not in excess of a sum equal to one
    month's rent.

The landlord may not require or receive from or on behalf of a tenant
at the beginning of a rental agreement any money other than the money
for the first month's rent and a security deposit as provided in this
section.

(c) At the termination of a rental agreement in which the landlord
required and received a security deposit if the landlord proposes to
retain any amount of the security deposit for any of the purposes
specified in subsection (a), the landlord shall so notify the tenant,
in writing, unless the tenant had wrongfully quit the dwelling unit,
together with the particulars of and grounds for the retention,
including written evidence of the costs of remedying tenant defaults.
The security deposit, or the portion of the security deposit remaining
after the landlord has claimed and retained amounts authorized under
this section, if any, shall be returned to the tenant not later than
fourteen days after the termination of the rental agreement. If the
landlord does not furnish the tenant with the written notice and other
information required by this subsection, within fourteen days after
the termination of the rental agreement, the landlord shall not be
entitled to retain the security deposit or any part of it, and the
landlord shall return the entire amount of the security deposit to the
tenant. A return of the security deposit or the furnishing of the
written notice and other required information in compliance with the
requirements of this subsection shall be presumptively proven if
mailed to the tenant, at an address supplied to the landlord by the
tenant, with acceptable proof of mailing and postmarked before
midnight of the fourteenth day after the date of the termination of
the rental agreement. All actions for the recovery of a landlord's
complete or partial retention of the security deposit shall be
instituted not later than one year after termination of the rental
agreement.

(d) For the purposes of this section if a tenant is absent from the
dwelling unit for a continuous period of twenty days or more without
written notice to the landlord the tenant shall be deemed to have
wrongfully quit the dwelling unit; provided that the tenant shall not
be considered to be absent from the dwelling unit without notice to
the landlord during any period for which the landlord has received
payment of rent.

(h) In any action in the small claims division of the district court
pursuant to subsection (g) where the court determines that:
(1) The landlord wrongfully and wilfully retained a security deposit
    or part of a security deposit, the court may award the tenant
    damages in an amount equal to three times the amount of the
    security deposit, or part thereof, wrongfully and wilfully
    retained and the cost of suit.
(2) The landlord wrongfully retained a security deposit or part of a
    security deposit, the court shall award the tenant damages in an
    amount equal to the amount of the security deposit, or part
    thereof, wrongfully retained and the cost of suit.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
