New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978, § 47-8-18 (fixture excerpt).
Uniform Owner-Resident Relations Act. 2025 N.M. Stat. § 47-8-18.
Enacted Laws 1975, ch. 38, § 18; last amended Laws 1989, ch. 340, § 2,
effective June 16, 1989.

A. An owner is permitted to demand from the resident a reasonable
deposit to be applied by the owner to recover damages, if any, caused
to the premises by the resident during his term of residency.

(1) Under the terms of an annual rental agreement, if the owner demands
or receives of the resident such a deposit in an amount greater than
one month's rent, the owner shall be required to pay to the resident
annually an interest equal to the passbook interest permitted to
savings and loan associations in this state by the federal home loan
bank board on such deposit.

(2) Under the terms of a rental agreement of a duration less than one
year, an owner shall not demand or receive from the resident such a
deposit in an amount in excess of one month's rent.

C. Upon termination of the residency, property or money held by the
owner as deposits may be applied by the owner to the payment of rent
and the amount of damages which the owner has suffered by reason of the
resident's noncompliance with the rental agreement or Section 47-8-22
NMSA 1978. No deposit shall be retained to cover normal wear and tear.
In the event actual cause exists for retaining any portion of the
deposit, the owner shall provide the resident with an itemized written
list of the deductions from the deposit and the balance of the deposit,
if any, within thirty days of the date of termination of the rental
agreement or resident departure, whichever is later. The owner is
deemed to have complied with this section by mailing the statement and
any payment required to the last known address of the resident.

D. If the owner fails to provide the resident with a written statement
of deductions from the deposit and the balance shown by the statement
to be due, within thirty days of the termination of the tenancy, the
owner: (1) shall forfeit the right to withhold any portion of the
deposit; (2) shall forfeit the right to assert any counterclaim in any
action brought to recover that deposit; (3) shall be liable to the
resident for court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees; and (4) shall
forfeit the right to assert an independent action against the resident
for damages to the rental property.

E. An owner who in bad faith retains a deposit in violation of this
section is liable for a civil penalty in the amount of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250) payable to the resident. Bad faith is a
determination, not a Boolean.

Not an official edition.
