California Labor Code section 226 (fixture excerpt).

(a) An employer, semimonthly or at the time of each payment of
wages, shall furnish to their employee, either as a detachable part
of the check, draft, or voucher paying the employee's wages, or
separately if wages are paid by personal check or cash, an accurate
itemized statement in writing showing (1) gross wages earned,
(2) total hours worked by the employee, except as provided in
subdivision (j), (3) the number of piece-rate units earned and any
applicable piece rate if the employee is paid on a piece-rate basis,
(4) all deductions, provided that all deductions made on written
orders of the employee may be aggregated and shown as one item,
(5) net wages earned, (6) the inclusive dates of the period for which
the employee is paid, (7) the name of the employee and only the last
four digits of their social security number or an employee
identification number other than a social security number, (8) the
name and address of the legal entity that is the employer and, if the
employer is a farm labor contractor, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1682, the name and address of the legal entity that
secured the services of the employer, and (9) all applicable hourly
rates in effect during the pay period and the corresponding number of
hours worked at each hourly rate by the employee and, beginning
July 1, 2013, if the employer is a temporary services employer as
defined in Section 201.3, the rate of pay and the total hours worked
for each temporary services assignment. ... a copy of the statement
and the record of the deductions shall be kept on file by the
employer for at least three years at the place of employment or at a
central location within the State of California.

(c) An employer who receives a written or oral request to inspect
or receive a copy of records pursuant to subdivision (b) pertaining
to a current or former employee shall comply with the request as soon
as practicable, but no later than 21 calendar days from the date of
the request.

(e)(1) An employee suffering injury as a result of a knowing and
intentional failure by an employer to comply with subdivision (a) is
entitled to recover the greater of all actual damages or fifty
dollars ($50) for the initial pay period in which a violation occurs
and one hundred dollars ($100) per employee for each violation in a
subsequent pay period, not to exceed an aggregate penalty of four
thousand dollars ($4,000), and is entitled to an award of costs and
reasonable attorney's fees.

(e)(2) An employee is deemed to suffer injury if the employer
fails to provide a wage statement, or fails to provide accurate and
complete information as required by any one or more of items (1) to
(9), inclusive, of subdivision (a) and the employee cannot promptly
and easily determine the listed information from the wage statement
alone.

(e)(3) A "knowing and intentional failure" does not include an
isolated and unintentional payroll error due to a clerical or
inadvertent mistake.

(f) A failure by an employer to permit a current or former
employee to inspect or receive a copy of records within the time set
forth in subdivision (c) entitles the current or former employee or
the Labor Commissioner to recover a seven-hundred-fifty-dollar ($750)
penalty from the employer.

(j) An itemized wage statement furnished by an employer pursuant
to subdivision (a) shall not be required to show total hours worked
by the employee if the employee is paid solely on a salary and is
exempt from overtime under Section 515 or an applicable IWC order, or
if the employee is exempt from minimum wage and overtime under
enumerated exemptions.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
