North Dakota Century Code chapter 47-18 (fixture excerpt).

47-18-01. Homestead exemption - Area and value.
The homestead of any individual, whether married or unmarried, residing
in this state consists of the land upon which the claimant resides, and the
dwelling house on that land in which the homestead claimant resides, with
all its appurtenances, and all other improvements on the land, the total not
to exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars in value, over and above liens
or encumbrances or both. The homestead shall be exempt from judgment
lien and from execution or forced sale, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. The homestead may not embrace different lots or tracts of land
unless the lots or tracts of land are contiguous. For purposes of this
section, "contiguous" means two or more tracts of real property which share
a common point or which would share a common point but for an intervening
road or right of way.

The 1977 legislature repealed the former two-acre town-plat and
one-hundred-sixty-acre rural area limits. Current law imposes no acreage
cap on the homestead itself. Senate Bill 2206 (S.L. 2023) raised the value
cap from one hundred thousand dollars to one hundred fifty thousand
dollars, effective August 1, 2023.

47-18-04. When homestead subject to execution.
A homestead is subject to execution or forced sale in satisfaction of
judgments obtained in the following cases:
1. On debts secured by mechanics', construction, or laborers' liens for
work or labor done or performed or material furnished exclusively for
the improvement of the same.
2. On debts secured by mortgage on the premises executed and
acknowledged by both husband and wife, or an unmarried claimant.
3. On debts created for the purchase thereof and for all taxes accruing
and levied thereon.
4. On all other debts when, upon an appraisal as provided by section
47-18-06, it appears that the value of the homestead is more than one
hundred fifty thousand dollars over and above liens or encumbrances
on the homestead, and then only to the extent of any value in excess
of the sum total of the liens and encumbrances plus said one hundred
fifty thousand dollars.

47-18-05.1. Waiver of homestead exemption - Notice required -
Exemption for platted property.
2. This section does not apply to a mortgage on property less than forty
acres [16.19 hectares].

47-18-08. Petition for appraisal - When filed.
A copy of the petition, with notice of the time and place of hearing, must
be served on the claimant at least ten days before the hearing.

47-18-11. Appraisers' report to judge of district court.
Within fifteen days after their appointment, the appraisers must present
to the judge a report in writing.

47-18-16. Proceeds of sale exempt.
If a homestead is conveyed as provided in section 47-18-05 or sold for
the satisfaction of any lien mentioned in section 47-18-04, the price thereof
or the proceeds of the sale beyond the amount necessary to satisfy such
lien, and not exceeding in either case the amount of the homestead
exemption, for a period of one year from the date of the conveyance, is
entitled thereafter to the same protection against legal process as the law
gives to the homestead.

47-18-17. Who may make declaration of homestead.
A failure to make such declaration shall not impair the homestead right.

See also N.D.C.C. section 28-22-02(7) (homestead absolutely exempt)
and (10) (housetrailer or mobile home occupied as a residence, in lieu of
the homestead, subject to the same value limitations).

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
