9 V.S.A. § 4461. Security deposits (fixture excerpt).
Cite as: 9 V.S.A. § 4461. Unofficial copy of the Vermont Statutes
Online as published by the Vermont General Assembly, including the
actions of the 2025 session. Last listed amendment: 2007, No. 176
(Adj. Sess.), § 45. H.772 (2025-2026), which would have capped a
deposit at two months' rent, did not amend this section.

(a) A security deposit is any advance, deposit, or prepaid rent, however
named, which is refundable to the tenant at the termination or expiration
of the tenancy. The function of a security deposit is to secure the
performance of a tenant's obligations to pay rent and to maintain a
dwelling unit.

(b) The landlord may retain all or a portion of the security deposit for:
(1) nonpayment of rent;
(2) damage to property of the landlord, unless the damage is the
result of normal wear and tear or the result of actions or events
beyond the control of the tenant;
(3) nonpayment of utility or other charges that the tenant was
required to pay directly to the landlord or to a utility; and
(4) expenses required to remove from the rental unit articles
abandoned by the tenant.

(c) A landlord shall return the security deposit along with a written
statement itemizing any deductions to a tenant within 14 days from the
date on which the landlord discovers that the tenant vacated or abandoned
the dwelling unit or the date the tenant vacated the dwelling unit,
provided the landlord received notice from the tenant of that date. In
the case of the seasonal occupancy and rental of a dwelling unit not
intended as a primary residence, the security deposit and written
statement shall be returned within 60 days.

(d) The landlord shall comply with this section by hand-delivering or
mailing the statement and any payment required to the last known address
of the tenant.

(e) If a landlord fails to return the security deposit with a statement
within 14 days, the landlord forfeits the right to withhold any portion
of the security deposit. If the failure is willful, the landlord shall
be liable for double the amount wrongfully withheld, plus reasonable
attorney's fees and costs.

(f) Upon termination of the landlord's interest in the dwelling unit, the
security deposit shall be transferred to the new landlord. The new
landlord shall give the tenant actual notice of the new landlord's name
and address with a statement that the security deposit has been
transferred to the new landlord.

(g) A town or municipality may adopt an ordinance governing security
deposits on dwellings. The ordinance shall be supplemental to and not
inconsistent with the minimum protections of the provisions of this
section. The ordinance may not limit how a security deposit is held. The
ordinance may authorize the payment of interest on a security deposit.
The ordinance may provide that a housing board of review constituted
pursuant to 24 V.S.A. § 5005 may hear and decide disputes related to
security deposits upon request for a hearing by a landlord or tenant.

The 14-day and 60-day clocks are counted days. Whether a failure is
willful, whether damage exceeds normal wear and tear, and whether a
municipal overlay applies are determinations, not Booleans. Research
fixture. Not legal advice. Not an official edition.
