Colorado Revised Statutes section 8-13.3-505 (fixture excerpt),
as amended by Senate Bill 25-144 (signed May 30, 2025; additional
neonatal-care weeks apply to claims arising on or after
January 1, 2026). Paid Family and Medical Leave Insurance Act.

8-13.3-505. Duration.

(1) The maximum number of weeks for which a covered individual
may take paid family and medical leave and for which family and
medical leave insurance benefits are payable for any purpose, or
purposes in aggregate, under section 8-13.3-504 (2) in an
application year is twelve weeks; except that benefits are payable
up to:

(a) An additional four weeks to a covered individual with a
serious health condition related to pregnancy complications or
childbirth complications; and

(b) For claims arising on or after January 1, 2026, an additional
twelve weeks to a covered individual who has a child receiving
inpatient care in a neonatal intensive care unit for the duration
that the child is receiving care in the neonatal intensive care
unit.

(2) The first payment of benefits shall be made to an individual
within two weeks after the claim is filed, and subsequent payments
shall be made every two weeks thereafter.

(3) A covered individual may take intermittent leave in increments
of either one hour or shorter periods if consistent with the
increments the employer typically uses to measure employee leave,
except that benefits are not payable until the covered individual
accumulates at least eight hours of family and medical leave
insurance benefits.

(5) In any case in which the necessity for leave under this part 5
is foreseeable, an employee shall provide notice to the individual's
employer with not less than 30 days' notice before the date the
leave is to begin of the individual's intention to take leave under
this part 5. If the necessity for leave is not foreseeable or
providing 30 days' notice is not possible, the individual shall
provide the notice as soon as practicable.

(6) Nothing in this section entitles a covered individual to more
leave than required under this section.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
