South Carolina Code of Laws, Title 27, Chapter 40, SECTION 27-40-410
(Residential Landlord and Tenant Act). Unannotated fixture excerpt from
https://www.scstatehouse.gov/code/t27c040.php as retrieved 2026-09-17.

SECTION 27-40-410. Security deposits; prepaid rent.

(a) Upon termination of the tenancy, property or money held by the
landlord as security must be returned less amounts withheld by the
landlord for accrued rent and damages which the landlord has suffered
by reason of the tenant's noncompliance with Section 27-40-510. Any
deduction from the security/rental deposit must be itemized by the
landlord in a written notice to the tenant together with the amount
due, if any, within thirty days after termination of the tenancy and
delivery of possession and demand by the tenant, whichever is later.
The tenant shall provide the landlord in writing with a forwarding
address or new address to which the written notice and amount due from
the landlord may be sent. If the tenant fails to provide the landlord
with the forwarding or new address, the tenant is not entitled to
damages under this subsection provided the landlord (1) had no notice
of the tenant's whereabouts and (2) mailed the written notice and
amount due, if any, to the tenant's last known address.

(b) If the landlord fails to return to the tenant any prepaid rent or
security/rental deposit with the notice required to be sent by the
landlord pursuant to subsection (a), the tenant may recover the
property and money in an amount equal to three times the amount
wrongfully withheld and reasonable attorney's fees.

(c) If a landlord (1) rents more than four adjoining dwelling units on
the premises, and (2) imposes different standards for calculating
security/rental deposits required of different tenants on the
premises, then, prior to the consummation of the rental agreement, the
landlord shall either post in a conspicuous place on the premises, or
at the place at which rental is paid a statement clearly indicating
the standards by which such security/rental deposits are calculated,
or shall provide each prospective tenant with a statement setting
forth the standards. If a landlord fails to comply with this
subsection as to a tenant, the difference between the security/rental
deposit required of the tenant and the lowest security/rental deposit
required of any other tenant of a comparable dwelling unit on the
premises is not subject to deductions for damages by reason of the
tenant's noncompliance with Section 27-40-510.

(d) This section does not preclude the landlord or tenant from
recovering other damages to which he may be entitled under this
chapter or otherwise.

(e) Subject to the provisions of Section 27-40-450, the holder of the
landlord's interest in the premises at the time of the termination of
the tenancy is bound by this section.

HISTORY: 1986 Act No. 336, SECTION 1; 1994 Act No. 498, SECTION 1.

SECTION 27-40-510. Tenant to maintain dwelling unit (deposit-deduction
standard referenced by SECTION 27-40-410(a)).

A tenant shall: (1) comply with all obligations primarily imposed upon
tenants by applicable provisions of building and housing codes
materially affecting health and safety; (2) keep the dwelling unit and
that part of the premises that he uses reasonably safe and reasonably
clean; (3) dispose from his dwelling unit all ashes, garbage, rubbish,
and other waste in a reasonably clean and safe manner; (4) keep all
plumbing fixtures in the dwelling unit or used by the tenant
reasonably clean; (5) use in a reasonable manner all electrical,
plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, and other
facilities and appliances including elevators in the premises; (6) not
deliberately or negligently destroy, deface, damage, impair, or remove
any part of the premises or knowingly permit any person to do so who
is on the premises with the tenant's permission or who is allowed
access to the premises by the tenant; (7) conduct himself and require
other persons on the premises with the tenant's permission or who are
allowed access to the premises by the tenant to conduct themselves in
a manner that will not disturb other tenant's peaceful enjoyment of
the premises; (8) comply with the lease and rules and regulations
which are enforceable pursuant to SECTION 27-40-520.

The Act does not cap the deposit amount and does not require interest.
Not an official edition.
