Ohio Revised Code section 5321.16 (fixture excerpt).
Procedures for security deposits. Effective November 4, 1974
(Senate Bill 103, 110th General Assembly). Unamended through 2026.

(A) Any security deposit in excess of fifty dollars or one month's
periodic rent, whichever is greater, shall bear interest on the excess at
the rate of five per cent per annum if the tenant remains in possession of
the premises for six months or more, and shall be computed and paid
annually by the landlord to the tenant.

(B) Upon termination of the rental agreement any property or money
held by the landlord as a security deposit may be applied to the payment
of past due rent and to the payment of the amount of damages that the
landlord has suffered by reason of the tenant's noncompliance with
section 5321.05 of the Revised Code or the rental agreement. Any
deduction from the security deposit shall be itemized and identified by
the landlord in a written notice delivered to the tenant together with the
amount due, within thirty days after termination of the rental agreement
and delivery of possession. The tenant shall provide the landlord in
writing with a forwarding address or new address to which the written
notice and amount due from the landlord may be sent. If the tenant fails
to provide the landlord with the forwarding or new address as required,
the tenant shall not be entitled to damages or attorneys fees under
division (C) of this section.

(C) If the landlord fails to comply with division (B) of this section, the
tenant may recover the property and money due him, together with
damages in an amount equal to the amount wrongfully withheld, and
reasonable attorneys fees.

Smith v. Padgett, 32 Ohio St.3d 344 (1987): "amount wrongfully
withheld" means the amount found owing from the landlord to the tenant
over and above any deduction the landlord may lawfully make. R.C.
5321.16(B) and (C) do not require bad faith. Double damages equal the
amount due plus an equal amount as damages. Chapter 5321 sets no
cap on the amount of a security deposit.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
