29 C.F.R. § 778.106 Time of payment. (eCFR current through 2026-09-15;
Title 29 last amended 2026-09-09.)

There is no requirement in the Act that overtime compensation be paid weekly.
The general rule is that overtime compensation earned in a particular workweek
must be paid on the regular pay day for the period in which such workweek
ends. When the correct amount of overtime compensation cannot be determined
until some time after the regular pay period, however, the requirements of the
Act will be satisfied if the employer pays the excess overtime compensation as
soon after the regular pay period as is practicable. Payment may not be delayed
for a period longer than is reasonably necessary for the employer to compute
and arrange for payment of the amount due and in no event may payment be
delayed beyond the next payday after such computation can be made.

U.S. Department of Labor Field Operations Handbook 30b04 (time of payment):
Payment of both minimum wage and overtime compensation due an employee
must ordinarily be made at the regular payday for the workweek or, when the
pay period covers more than a single week, at the regular payday for the period
in which the particular workweek ends.

29 U.S.C. § 260 (Portal-to-Portal Act). Liquidated damages.

In any action commenced prior to or on or after May 14, 1947 to recover unpaid
minimum wages, unpaid overtime compensation, or liquidated damages, under
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, if the employer shows to
the satisfaction of the court that the act or omission giving rise to such action
was in good faith and that he had reasonable grounds for believing that his act
or omission was not a violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as
amended, the court may, in its sound discretion, award no liquidated damages
or award any amount thereof not to exceed the amount specified in section 216
of this title.

29 U.S.C. § 216(b) makes an employer who violates sections 206 or 207 liable
for the unpaid wages and an additional equal amount as liquidated damages,
subject to the court's discretion under section 260.

Not an official edition.
