Alabama Code Title 8, Chapter 24. Sales Representative's Commission Contracts.
Fixture excerpt for Fidryn research. Snapshot 2026-09-17.

Section 8-24-1. Definitions.

(1) COMMISSION. Compensation accruing to a sales representative for payment
by a principal, the rate of which is expressed as a percentage of the dollar
amount of certain orders or sales.

(2) PRINCIPAL. Any person who does all of the following:
a. Engages in the business of manufacturing, producing, importing, or
distributing a product or products for sale to customers who purchase the
product or products for resale.
b. Utilizes sales representatives to solicit orders for the product or products.
c. Compensates the sales representatives, in whole or in part, by commission.

(3) SALES REPRESENTATIVE. Any person who engages in the business of
soliciting, on behalf of a principal, orders for the purchase at wholesale of
the product or products of the principal, but does not include a person who
places orders or purchases for his or her own account for resale, or a person
engaged in home solicitation sales.

(4) TERMINATION. The end of services performed by the sales representative
for the principal, whether by discharge, resignation, or expiration of a contract.

Section 8-24-2. When commission is due; payment.

(a) The terms of the contract between the principal and sales representative
shall determine when a commission is due.

(b) If the time when the commission is due cannot be determined by a contract
between the principal and sales representative, the past practices between the
parties shall control, or if there are no past practices, the custom and usage
prevalent in this state for the business that is the subject of the relationship
between the parties shall control.

(c) All commissions that are due at the time of termination of a contract
between a sales representative and principal shall be paid within thirty days
after the date of termination. Commissions that become due after the
termination date shall be paid within thirty days after the date on which the
commissions become due.

Section 8-24-3. Failure to pay commission.

A principal who fails to pay a commission as required by Section 8-24-2 is
liable to the sales representative in a civil action for three times the damages
sustained by the sales representative plus reasonable attorney's fees and
court costs.

There is no companion Alabama Code section in Title 25 (Industrial Relations
and Labor) that sets a payday frequency or a final-paycheck deadline for
ordinary employees. The Alabama Department of Workforce (formerly Labor)
states that Alabama has no separate state wage-and-hour laws and that
employers follow federal Wage and Hour Division rules.

Not an official edition.
