Montana Code Annotated 2025, Title 39, chapter 2, part 9
(Wrongful Discharge From Employment Act). Fixture excerpt.

39-2-910. Probationary period.
(1) If an employer does not establish a specific probationary
period or provide that there is no probationary period prior to or at
the time the employee begins work, there is a probationary period of 12
months commencing on the date the employee begins work.
(2) An employer may extend a probationary period prior to the
expiration of a probationary period, but the original probationary
period together with any periods of extension may not exceed 18 months.
(3) If an employee has one or more leaves of absence during the
original probationary period or any extension of the probationary
period, the time of each leave of absence may not be a part of the
probationary period unless the employer affirmatively elects to include
each leave of absence as part of the probationary period.

History: En. Sec. 1, Ch. 117, L. 2021 (HB 254). Effective March 31,
2021. The pre-2021 default in former 39-2-904(2)(b) was 6 months.

39-2-911. Limitation of actions.
(1) An action under this part must be filed within 1 year after
the date of discharge.
(2) If an employer maintains written internal procedures ... the
employee shall first exhaust those procedures prior to filing an action
under this part. ... If the employer's internal procedures are not
completed within 90 days from the date the employee initiates the
internal procedures, the employee may file an action under this part
and ... the employer's internal procedures are considered exhausted.
The limitation period in subsection (1) is tolled until the procedures
are exhausted. In no case may the provisions of the employer's internal
procedures extend the limitation period in subsection (1) more than 120
days.
(3) ... the employer shall within 14 days of the date of the
discharge notify the discharged employee in writing or electronically
of the existence of the internal procedures.
(4) If a plaintiff commences a civil action for wrongful discharge
under this part, the plaintiff shall make service of process no later
than 6 months after filing the complaint.

39-2-912. Exemptions.
This part does not apply to a discharge that is subject to any other
state or federal statute that provides a procedure or remedy for
contesting the dispute, or of an employee covered by a written
collective bargaining agreement or a written contract of employment for
a specific term.

Compiled from MCA 2025 as in force on the snapshot date. Not an official edition.
