Montana Code Annotated 2025, Title 39, chapter 2, part 9
(Wrongful Discharge From Employment Act). Fixture excerpt.

39-2-903. Definitions.
(5) "Good cause" means any reasonable job-related grounds for an
employee's dismissal based on:
(a) the employee's failure to satisfactorily perform job duties;
(b) the employee's disruption of the employer's operation;
(c) the employee's material or repeated violation of an express
provision of the employer's written policies; or
(d) other legitimate business reasons determined by the employer
while exercising the employer's reasonable business judgment. The legal
use of a lawful product by an individual off the employer's premises
during nonworking hours is not a legitimate business reason, unless the
employer acts within the provisions of 39-2-313(3) or (4).
(6) "Leave of absence" means an employee's absence from work for a
period of more than 5 consecutive working days for any reason other than
holidays and vacations.

39-2-904. Elements of wrongful discharge.
(1) A discharge is wrongful only if:
(a) it was in retaliation for the employee's refusal to violate
public policy or for reporting a violation of public policy;
(b) the discharge was not for good cause and the employee had
completed the employer's probationary period of employment;
(c) the employer materially violated an express provision of its
own written personnel policy prior to the discharge, and the violation
deprived the employee of a fair and reasonable opportunity to remain in
a position of employment with the employer; or
(d) the employer terminated the employee solely based on the
employee's legal expression of free speech, including but not limited to
statements made on social media.
(2) During a probationary period of employment, the employment may
be terminated at the will of either the employer or the employee on
notice to the other for any reason or for no reason.
(3) The employer has the broadest discretion when making a decision
to discharge any managerial or supervisory employee.

39-2-905. Remedies.
(1) If an employer has committed a wrongful discharge, the employee
may be awarded lost wages and fringe benefits for a period not to exceed
4 years from the date of discharge, together with interest on the lost
wages and fringe benefits.

Compiled from MCA 2025 as in force on the snapshot date. Not an official edition.
