Louisiana Civil Code articles 2336 and 2338 through 2340 (fixture excerpt).
Matrimonial regimes, Book III, Title VI, Chapter 2, Section 1.

Art. 2336. Each spouse owns a present undivided one-half interest in the
community property. Nevertheless, neither the community nor things of the
community may be judicially partitioned prior to the termination of the
regime.

Art. 2338. The community property comprises: property acquired during the
existence of the legal regime through the effort, skill, or industry of
either spouse; property acquired with community things or with community
and separate things, unless classified as separate property under Article
2341; property donated to the spouses jointly; natural and civil fruits of
community property; damages awarded for loss or injury to a thing belonging
to the community; and all other property not classified by law as separate
property.

Art. 2339. The natural and civil fruits of the separate property of a
spouse, minerals produced from or attributable to a separate asset, and
bonuses, delay rentals, royalties, and shut-in payments arising from
mineral leases are community property. Nevertheless, a spouse may reserve
them as his separate property as provided in this Article.

A spouse may reserve them as his separate property by a declaration made
in an authentic act or in an act under private signature duly acknowledged.
A copy of the declaration shall be provided to the other spouse prior to
filing of the declaration.

As to the fruits and revenues of immovables, the declaration is effective
when a copy is provided to the other spouse and the declaration is filed
for registry in the conveyance records of the parish in which the immovable
property is located. As to fruits of movables, the declaration is effective
when a copy is provided to the other spouse and the declaration is filed
for registry in the conveyance records of the parish in which the declarant
is domiciled.

Art. 2340. Things in the possession of a spouse during the existence of a
regime of community of acquets and gains are presumed to be community, but
either spouse may prove that they are separate property.

Classification is not a Boolean. Tracing that rebuts the presumption, and
whether a fruit reservation was executed as article 2339 requires, remain
determinations. Not an official edition.
