Wyoming Statutes Title 27, Chapter 4, Article 5 (fixture excerpt).
Collection of unpaid wages. Current compilation as of the 2026
snapshot. The vacation-forfeiture carve-out in the definition of
wages was added by Laws 2013, ch. 37, effective July 1, 2013.

27-4-501. Definitions.

(a) Whenever used in this act:

(i) "Employer" means any individual, partnership,
association, joint stock company, trust, corporation, labor
organization, the administrator or executor of the estate of a
deceased individual, or the receiver, trustee, or successor of any
of the same, employing any person;

(ii) "Employee" means any person who, under the usual
common law rules applicable in determining the employer-employee
relationship, has the status of an employee;

(iii) "Wages" means compensation, including fringe
benefits, for labor or services rendered by an employee, whether the
amount is determined on a time, task, piece, commission, or other
basis, but does not include the value of vacation leave accrued at
the date of termination if the written policies of the employer
provide that accrued vacation is forfeited upon termination of
employment and the written policies are acknowledged in writing by
the employee;

(iv) "Department" means the department of workforce
services;

(v) "This act" means W.S. 27-4-501 through 27-4-508.

27-4-502. Claims for unpaid wages; anti-retaliation.

(a) The department is hereby empowered to take claims for
unpaid wages under the provisions of W.S. 27-4-101 and 27-4-104.
The department in taking a claim for unpaid wages as provided for in
this act is not to exceed the maximum amount specified in section
507(a)(4) of title 11, United States Code for claims arising out of
bankruptcy or two (2) months wages for any claims not arising out of
bankruptcy, per employee per wage claim.

(b) It shall be an unlawful employment practice for any
employer to discharge, harass, discipline or in any other manner
discriminate against any employee because the employee filed a claim
for unpaid wages or made any other complaint or instituted or caused
to be instituted any proceeding under or related to this act or
testified, assisted or participated in any manner in an
investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act. Any employer
who violates the provisions of this subsection shall be liable for
legal or equitable relief as may be appropriate to effectuate the
purposes of this act including continued employment, reinstatement,
promotion and the payment of wages lost and an additional equal
amount as liquidated damages.

27-4-504. Investigation and determination of unpaid wage
claims; hearing; orders; collection of unpaid wages.

(a) Upon receipt of a written claim for unpaid wages, the
department shall process, investigate and determine the validity of
the claim.

(b) If either the employer or employee is aggrieved by the
department's determination, the aggrieved party may request a fair
hearing. The aggrieved party must file a written request for hearing
within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the department's
determination. Upon receipt of a timely submitted request for
hearing, the director shall appoint an independent hearing officer
to conduct the fair hearing between the employer and employee. The
fair hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the Wyoming
Administrative Procedure Act. The hearing officer's determination
shall constitute the director's final agency action.

(d) An employer's failure to comply with a department's order
is punishable by a civil fine not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each day the employer fails to comply with the order.

Related Labor Standards wage-offset practice: in a dispute over
wage offsets the employer shall give written notice of the amount
conceded to be due and shall pay such amount without condition
within the time required by statute. Acceptance of a partial payment
is not a release or waiver of the balance. Complete wage-offset
rules are outside this excerpt.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
