Wyoming Statutes Title 27, Chapter 4, Article 1 (fixture excerpt).
Current compilation as of the 2026 snapshot. The five (5) working day
final-pay rule was replaced in 2015 (Laws 2015, ch. 129, approved
March 4, 2015, effective immediately).

27-4-101. Semimonthly payments required; method of payment;
agricultural operations exempt; payment in case of labor dispute or
temporary layoff.

(a) Every person, firm or corporation, engaged in the operation
of any railroad, mine, refinery, and work incidental to prospecting
for, or the production of, oil and gas, or other factory, mill or
workshop, within the state of Wyoming, shall, on or before the first
day of each month, pay their employees the wages earned by them
during the first half of the preceding month ending with the
fifteenth day of the month, and on or before the fifteenth day of
each month pay their employees the wages earned by them during the
last half of the preceding month; provided, further, that if the
first or the fifteenth of the month occurs on a day which is not a
working day, that the last preceding working day shall be the
payday, for all personnel who are regularly paid at one (1) location,
provided, every employer shall establish and maintain regular
paydays as herein provided and shall post and maintain copies of
this law printed in plain type in at least two (2) conspicuous
places where the notices can be seen by the employees.

(b) Every employer shall, at the time of each payment of wages,
furnish each of his employees with a detachable part of the check,
draft or voucher, paying the employees' wages, giving an itemized
statement in writing showing all deductions made from such wages.
Nothing in W.S. 27-4-101 through 27-4-103 shall be construed to
prohibit an employer from depositing wages due or to become due or
an advance on wages to be earned, in an account in any bank, savings
and loan association, credit union or other financial institution
authorized by the United States or one (1) of the several states to
receive deposits in the United States if the employee has
voluntarily authorized such deposit.

(c) Agricultural operations shall be exempt from the provisions
provided herein.

(d) When work of any employee is suspended as a result of a
labor dispute, or when an employee for any reason whatsoever is
temporarily laid off, the employer shall pay in full to such
employee on the next regular payday, either through the regular pay
channels or by mail if requested by the employee, wages earned to
the time of suspension or layoff.

27-4-104. Payment of employee quitting or discharged and suit
for wages; generally.

(a) Whenever an employee quits service or is discharged, the
employee shall be paid whatever wages are due him in lawful money of
the United States of America, or by check or draft which can be
cashed at a bank, no later than the employer's usual practice on
regularly scheduled payroll dates or at a time specified under the
terms of a collective bargaining agreement between the employer and
the employee. The employer may offset from any monies due the
employee as wages, any sums due the employer from the employee which
have been incurred by the employee during his employment. This
section does not apply to the earnings of a sales agent employed on
a commission basis and having custody of accounts, money or goods of
his principal where the net amount due the agent may not be
determinable except after an audit or verification of sales,
accounts, funds or stocks.

(b) Whenever an employee who has quit, has been discharged from
service, or because of action taken by the employer is prevented
from working has cause to bring suit for wages earned and due, and
shall establish in court the amount which is justly due, the court
shall allow to the plaintiff interest on the past due wages at the
rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum from the date of discharge
or termination or from the date when unpaid wages are required to be
paid as specified in this act, together with a reasonable attorney
fee and all costs of suit. Prosecution of a civil action to recover
unpaid wages does not preclude prosecution under W.S. 27-4-105.

27-4-105. Payment of employee quitting or discharged and suit
for wages; penalty.

Every person, firm or corporation willfully violating any of the
provisions of W.S. 27-4-104 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
