Maryland Code, Labor and Employment §§ 3-505 and 3-507.2
(fixture excerpt). Wage Payment and Collection.

§ 3-505. Payment on termination of employment; accrued leave.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, each
employer shall pay an employee or the authorized representative of
an employee all wages due for work that the employee performed
before the termination of employment, on or before the day on which
the employee would have been paid the wages if the employment had
not been terminated.

(b) An employer is not required to pay accrued leave to an
employee if:
    (1) the employer has a written policy that limits the
    compensation of accrued leave to employees;
    (2) the employer notified the employee of the employer's
    leave benefits in accordance with § 3-504(a)(1) of this subtitle;
    and
    (3) the employee is not entitled to payment for accrued leave
    at termination under the terms of the employer's written policy.

§ 3-507.2. Recovery of unpaid wages.

(a) Notwithstanding any remedy available under § 3-507 of this
subtitle, if an employer fails to pay an employee in accordance
with § 3-502 or § 3-505 of this subtitle, after 2 weeks have
elapsed from the date on which the employer is required to have
paid the wages, the employee may bring an action against the
employer to recover the unpaid wages.

(b) If, in an action under subsection (a) of this section, a
court finds that an employer withheld the wage of an employee in
violation of this subtitle and not as a result of a bona fide
dispute, the court may award the employee an amount not exceeding
3 times the wage, and reasonable counsel fees and other costs.

(c) Construction-services general-contractor joint and several
liability for a subcontractor violation is outside this module's
encoded slice.

Whether a withholding is "as a result of a bona fide dispute" is
a determination, not a Boolean. Treble damages are a ceiling, not
an automatic award.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
