New York General Obligations Law § 7-105 (fixture excerpt).
Open Legislation most recent revision dated 2014-09-22; retrieved 2026-09-17.

§ 7-105. Landlord failing to turn over deposits made by tenants or
licensees and to notify tenants or licensees thereof in certain cases.

1. Any person, firm or corporation ... who or which has or hereafter
shall have received from a tenant or licensee a sum of money ... as a
deposit or advance of rental as security ... shall, upon conveying such
property or assigning his or its lease to another, or upon the judicial
appointment and qualifying of a receiver ... at the time of the delivery
of the deed or instrument or assignment or within five days thereafter,
or within five days after the receiver shall have qualified, deal with
the security deposit as follows:

Turn over to his or its grantee or assignee, or to the receiver in the
foreclosure action, or to the purchaser at the foreclosure sale if a
receiver shall not have been appointed and qualified the sum so
deposited, and notify the tenant or licensee by registered or certified
mail of such turning over and the name and address of such grantee,
assignee, purchaser or receiver.

2. Any owner or lessee turning over to his or its grantee, assignee,
to a purchaser of the leased premises at a foreclosure sale, or to the
receiver in the foreclosure action the amount of such security deposit
is hereby relieved of and from liability to the tenant or licensee for
the repayment thereof; and the transferee of such security deposit is
hereby made responsible for the return thereof to the tenant or
licensee, unless he or it shall thereafter and before the expiration of
the term of the tenant's lease or licensee's agreement, transfer such
security deposit to another, pursuant to subdivision one hereof and give
the requisite notice in connection therewith as provided thereby.

3. Any failure to comply with this section is a misdemeanor.

Section 7-103(1) permits disposition of the trust deposit as provided
in this section. Whether a particular conveyance triggered the five-day
turnover is a fact determination.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
