Maine Revised Statutes Title 26, sections 850-A and 850-B (fixture excerpt).
Labor and Industry, Employment Practices, Subchapter 6-C, Paid Family and
Medical Leave.

Section 850-A. Covered individual means a person who earned at least 6
times the state average weekly wage in wages subject to premiums during
the individual's base period, or who elects coverage and meets section
850-G, and who meets administrative requirements and files an application
for family leave benefits or medical leave benefits.

Base period means the first 4 of the last 5 completed calendar quarters
immediately preceding the first day of an individual's benefit year.

Benefit year means the 12-month period beginning on the first day of the
calendar week immediately preceding the first date of approved family or
medical leave.

State average weekly wage means the average weekly wage as published by
the department for the State as a whole for the 12 most recently reported
months. The Maine Workers' Compensation Board published a state average
weekly wage of $1,249.12 as of July 1, 2026.

Section 850-B. A covered individual is eligible for family leave to bond
with a child during the first 12 months after birth or placement for
adoption or foster care; to care for a family member with a serious health
condition; to attend to a qualifying exigency; to care for a family member
who is a covered service member; to take safe leave; or for any other
reason set forth in section 843, subsection 4.

A covered individual with a serious health condition that makes the
covered individual unable to work is eligible for medical leave.

A covered individual is not eligible for more than 12 weeks of family
leave in a benefit year, is not eligible for medical leave for more than
12 weeks in a benefit year, and may not take more than 12 weeks, in the
aggregate, of family leave and medical leave in the same benefit year.
This subsection does not prevent medical leave immediately followed by
family leave when the medical leave is taken during pregnancy or recovery
from childbirth and is supported by documentation from a health care
provider.

Whether a claimed absence is a qualifying family or medical event is a
determination, not a Boolean. Not an official edition.
