Minnesota Statutes § 504B.178 (fixture excerpt).
2025 Minnesota Statutes. INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS; WITHHOLDING
SECURITY DEPOSITS; DAMAGES; LIMIT ON WITHHOLDING LAST MONTH'S RENT.

Subdivision 1. Applicability.
Any deposit of money, the function of which is to secure the performance of a residential
rental agreement or any part of such an agreement, other than a deposit which is exclusively
an advance payment of rent, shall be governed by the provisions of this section.

Subd. 2. Interest.
Any deposit of money shall not be considered received in a fiduciary capacity within the
meaning of section 82.55, subdivision 26, but shall be held by the landlord for the tenant who
is party to the agreement and shall bear simple noncompounded interest at the rate of one
percent per annum, computed from the first day of the next month following the full payment
of the deposit to the last day of the month in which the landlord, in good faith, complies with
the requirements of subdivision 3 or to the date upon which judgment is entered in any civil
action involving the landlord's liability for the deposit, whichever date is earlier. Any interest
amount less than $1 shall be excluded from the provisions of this section.

Subd. 3. Return of security deposit.
(a) Every landlord shall:
(1) within three weeks after termination of the tenancy; or
(2) within five days of the date when the tenant leaves the building or dwelling due to the
legal condemnation of the building or dwelling in which the tenant lives for reasons not due
to willful, malicious, or irresponsible conduct of the tenant,
and after receipt of the tenant's mailing address or delivery instructions, return the deposit to
the tenant, with interest thereon as provided in subdivision 2, or furnish to the tenant a written
statement showing the specific reason for the withholding of the deposit or any portion thereof.
(b) It shall be sufficient compliance with the time requirement of this subdivision if the
deposit or written statement required by this subdivision is placed in the United States mail
as first class mail, postage prepaid, in an envelope with a proper return address, correctly
addressed according to the mailing address or delivery instructions furnished by the tenant,
within the time required by this subdivision. The landlord may withhold from the deposit
only amounts reasonably necessary:
(1) to remedy tenant defaults in the payment of rent or of other funds due to the landlord
pursuant to an agreement; or
(2) to restore the premises to their condition at the commencement of the tenancy, ordinary
wear and tear excepted.
(c) In any action concerning the deposit, the burden of proving, by a fair preponderance
of the evidence, the reason for withholding all or any portion of the deposit shall be on the
landlord.

Subd. 4. Damages.
Any landlord who fails to provide a written statement within three weeks of termination
of the tenancy, or within five days of a qualifying condemnation vacatur, or to transfer or
return a deposit as required by subdivision 5, or to provide the tenant with notice for an
initial inspection and move-out inspection as required by section 504B.182 and complete
those inspections when requested, after receipt of the tenant's mailing address or delivery
instructions, is liable to the tenant for damages in an amount equal to the portion of the
deposit withheld by the landlord and interest thereon as provided in subdivision 2, as a
penalty, in addition to the portion of the deposit wrongfully withheld by the landlord and
interest thereon.

Subd. 5. Return of deposit following termination of the landlord's interest in the premises.
Upon termination of the landlord's interest in the premises, whether by sale, assignment,
death, appointment of receiver or otherwise, the landlord or the landlord's agent shall, within
60 days of termination of the interest or when the successor in interest is required to return
or otherwise account for the deposit to the tenant, whichever occurs first, transfer the deposit
to the successor or return it to the tenant, with interest.

Subd. 7. Bad faith retention.
The bad faith retention by a landlord of a deposit, the interest thereon, or any portion
thereof, in violation of this section shall subject the landlord to punitive damages not to
exceed $500 for each deposit in addition to the damages provided in subdivision 4. If the
landlord has failed to comply with the provisions of subdivision 3 or 5, retention of a deposit
shall be presumed to be in bad faith unless the landlord returns the deposit within two weeks
after the commencement of any action for the recovery of the deposit.

Subd. 10. Waiver.
Any attempted waiver of this section by a landlord and tenant, by contract or otherwise,
shall be void and unenforceable.

Subd. 11. Tenancies after July 1, 1973.
The provisions of this section shall apply only to tenancies commencing or renewed on
or after July 1, 1973.

Return days, the one-percent rate, the one-dollar interest exclusion, and the five-hundred-dollar
punitive cap are mechanical. Bad faith, ordinary wear and tear, and reasonably necessary
withholding remain determinations. Not an official edition.
