O.C.G.A. § 44-7-51 et seq. Summons, answer, tender, default, and writ
of possession. (fixture excerpt). Retrieved 2026-09-17.

§ 44-7-51. Issuance of summons; service; time for answer; defenses
and counterclaims.

(a) When the affidavit provided for in Code Section 44-7-50 is made,
the judge of the superior court, the state court, or any other court
with jurisdiction over the subject matter or the judge, clerk, or
deputy clerk of the magistrate court shall grant and issue a summons
to the sheriff or his deputy or to any lawful constable of the county
where the land is located. A copy of the summons and a copy of the
affidavit shall be personally served upon the defendant. If the
sheriff is unable to serve the defendant personally, service may be
had by delivering the summons and the affidavit to any person who is
sui juris residing on the premises or, if after reasonable effort no
such person is found residing on the premises, by posting a copy of
the summons and the affidavit on the door of the premises and, on the
same day of such posting, by enclosing, directing, stamping, and
mailing by first-class mail a copy of the summons and the affidavit
to the defendant at his last known address, if any, and making an
entry of this action on the affidavit filed in the case.

(b) The summons served on the defendant pursuant to subsection (a) of
this Code section shall command and require the tenant to answer
either orally or in writing within seven days from the date of the
actual service unless the seventh day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a
legal holiday, in which case the answer may be made on the next day
which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday. If the answer
is oral, the substance thereof shall be endorsed on the dispossessory
affidavit. The answer may contain any legal or equitable defense or
counterclaim. The landlord need not appear on the date of the tenant's
response. The last possible date to answer shall be stated on the
summons.

§ 44-7-52(a). In an action for nonpayment of rent, the tenant shall
be allowed to tender to the landlord, within seven days of the day
the tenant was served with the summons pursuant to Code Section
44-7-51, all rents allegedly owed plus the cost of the dispossessory
warrant. Such a tender shall be a complete defense to the action;
provided, however, that a landlord is required to accept such a
tender from any individual tenant after the issuance of a
dispossessory summons only once in any 12 month period.

§ 44-7-53(a). If the tenant fails to answer as provided in subsection
(b) of Code Section 44-7-51, the court shall issue a writ of
possession instanter notwithstanding Code Section 9-11-55 or Code
Section 9-11-62.

§ 44-7-55(a). If, on the trial of the case, the judgment is against
the tenant, judgment shall be entered against the tenant for all
rents due and for any other claim relating to the dispute. The court
shall issue a writ of possession, both of execution for the judgment
amount and a writ to be effective at the expiration of seven days
after the date such judgment was entered, except as otherwise
provided in Code Section 44-7-56.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
