O.C.G.A. § 44-7-50. Demand for possession; procedure upon a tenant's
refusal; notice to vacate or pay. (fixture excerpt).
Current text as amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 392 (HB 404 / Safe at Home
Act), effective July 1, 2024, and applicable to residential lease
agreements entered into or renewed on or after that date. Retrieved
2026-09-17. A 2026 Act adding subsection (e) on sealing of
dispossessory records is not yet in force (effective January 1, 2027).

(a) In all cases when a tenant holds possession of lands or tenements
over and beyond the term for which they were rented or leased to such
tenant and in all cases when lands or tenements are held and occupied
by any tenant at will or sufferance, whether under contract of rent or
not, when the owner of such lands or tenements desires possession of
such lands or tenements, such owner may, individually or by an agent,
attorney at law, or attorney in fact, demand the possession of the
property so rented, leased, held, or occupied. If the tenant refuses
or fails to deliver possession when so demanded, the owner or the
agent, attorney at law, or attorney in fact of such owner may
immediately go before the judge of the superior court, the judge of
the state court, or the clerk or deputy clerk of either court, or the
judge or the clerk or deputy clerk of any other court with
jurisdiction over the subject matter, or a magistrate in the district
where the land lies and make an affidavit under oath to the facts.
Such affidavit may likewise be made before a notary public.

(b) If issued by a public housing authority, the demand for possession
required by subsection (a) or (c) of this Code section may be provided
concurrently with the federally required notice of lease termination
in a separate writing.

(c) In all cases when a tenant fails to pay the rent, late fees,
utilities, or other charges owed to the landlord when it becomes due,
if the tenant refuses to pay the amount due or fails to deliver
possession when so demanded after being provided with a notice to
vacate or pay all past due rent, late fees, utilities, and other
charges owed to the landlord within three business days, the owner or
the agent, attorney at law, or attorney in fact of such owner may
immediately go before the judge of the superior court, the judge of
the state court, or the clerk or deputy clerk of either court, or the
judge or the clerk or deputy clerk of any other court with
jurisdiction over the subject matter, or a magistrate in the district
where the land lies and make an affidavit under oath to the facts.
Such affidavit may likewise be made before a notary public.

(d) The demand for possession notice under subsection (a) of this Code
section or the three-day notice to vacate or pay under subsection (c)
of this Code section shall be posted in a sealed envelope
conspicuously on the door of the property and delivered via any
additional method or methods agreed upon in the rental agreement.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
