New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated § 275:43 (fixture excerpt).
General Court compilation current through the 2025 regular session.

275:43 Weekly or Biweekly. –

I. Every employer shall pay all wages due to employees within 8 days after
the expiration of the work week if the employee is paid on a weekly basis, or
within 15 days after the expiration of the work week if the employee is paid
on a biweekly basis, except when permitted to pay wages less frequently as
authorized by the commissioner pursuant to paragraph IV or IV-a(a), on regular
paydays designated in advance by the employer and at no cost to the employee:

(a) In lawful money of the United States;

(b) By electronic fund transfer;

(c) By direct deposit with written authorization of the employee to banks
of the employee's choice;

(d) By a payroll card provided that the employer shall provide to the
employee at least one free means to withdraw up to and including the full
amount of the employee balance in the employee's payroll card or payroll card
account during each pay period at a financial institution or other location
convenient to the place of employment. None of the employer's costs associated
with a payroll card or payroll card account shall be passed on to the
employee; or

(e) With checks on a financial institution convenient to the place of
employment where suitable arrangements are made for the cashing of such checks
by employees for the full amount of the wages due.

IV. The commissioner may, upon written petition showing good and sufficient
reason, permit payment of wages other than weekly or biweekly, except that it
shall be at least once each calendar month. In all instances, payment shall be
made regularly on a predesignated date. The commissioner may prescribe the
terms and conditions of such permission, and limit the duration thereof.

V. Vacation pay, severance pay, personal days, holiday pay, sick pay, and
payment of employee expenses, when such benefits are a matter of employment
practice or policy, or both, shall be considered wages pursuant to RSA 275:42,
III, when due.

Source. 1911, 78:1, 2. 2018, 133:1, eff. July 29, 2018.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
