New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated § 275:44 (fixture excerpt).
General Court compilation current through the 2025 regular session.

275:44 Employees Separated From Payroll Before Pay Days. –

I. Whenever an employer discharges an employee, the employer shall pay the
employee's wages in full within 72 hours.

II. Whenever an employee quits or resigns, the employer shall pay the
employee's wages no later than the next regular payday, as provided under RSA
275:43, either through the regular pay channels or by mail if requested by the
employee, except that if the employee gives at least one pay period's notice
of intention to quit the employer shall pay all wages earned by the employee
within 72 hours.

III. When work of an employee is suspended as a result of a labor dispute,
or when an employee for any reason whatsoever is laid off, the employer shall
pay in full to such employee not later than the next regular payday, as
designated under RSA 275:43, either through the regular pay channels or by
mail if requested by the employee, wages earned at the time of suspension or
layoff.

IV. If an employer willfully and without good cause fails to pay an
employee wages as required under paragraphs I, II or III of this section, such
employer shall be additionally liable to the employee for liquidated damages
in the amount of 10 percent of the unpaid wages for each day except Sunday and
legal holidays upon which such failure continues after the day upon which
payment is required or in an amount equal to the unpaid wages, whichever is
smaller; except that, for the purpose of such liquidated damages such failure
shall not be deemed to continue after the date of filing of a petition in
bankruptcy with respect to the employer if he is adjudicated bankrupt upon
such petition.

V. Regardless of the reason for an employee's termination of employment the
employer shall pay to the appropriate administrator or other designated
officials all wages in the nature of hourly health and welfare fund or pension
fund contributions due with respect to such employee at the time of the next
succeeding payment date applicable to such contributions.

Source. 1887, 26:4. RSA 275:44. 1967, 398:3, eff. Sept. 1, 1967.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
