Nebraska Revised Statutes, Nebraska Wage Payment and Collection Act.
Fixture excerpt of sections 48-1229 and 48-1230.

48-1229. Terms, defined.
(6) Wages means compensation for labor or services rendered by an
employee, including fringe benefits, when previously agreed to and
conditions stipulated have been met by the employee, whether the amount
is determined on a time, task, fee, commission, or other basis. Paid
leave, other than earned but unused vacation leave, provided as a fringe
benefit by the employer shall not be included in the wages due and
payable at the time of separation, unless the employer and the employee
or the employer and the collective-bargaining representative have
specifically agreed otherwise. Unless the employer and employee have
specifically agreed otherwise through a contract effective at the
commencement of employment or at least ninety days prior to separation,
whichever is later, wages includes commissions on all orders delivered
and all orders on file with the employer at the time of separation of
employment less any orders returned or canceled at the time suit is
filed.

48-1230. Employer; regular paydays; altered; notice; deduct, withhold,
or divert portion of wages; when; wage statement; use of payroll debit
card; conditions; unpaid wages; when due.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each employer
shall pay all wages due its employees on regular days designated by the
employer or agreed upon by the employer and employee. Thirty days'
written notice shall be given to an employee before regular paydays are
altered by an employer. An employer may deduct, withhold, or divert a
portion of an employee's wages only when the employer is required to or
may do so by state or federal law or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction or the employer has a written agreement with the employee
to deduct, withhold, or divert.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in section 48-1230.01:
(a) Whenever an employer, other than a political subdivision,
separates an employee from the payroll, the unpaid wages shall become
due on the next regular payday or within two weeks of the date of
termination, whichever is sooner; and
(b) Whenever a political subdivision separates an employee from the
payroll, the unpaid wages shall become due within two weeks of the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body of the political
subdivision if such employee is separated from the payroll at least one
week prior to such meeting, or if an employee of a political subdivision
is separated from the payroll less than one week prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body of the political
subdivision, the unpaid wages shall be due within two weeks of the
following regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body of the
political subdivision.

48-1230.01. Unpaid wages constituting commissions become due on the
next regular payday following the employer's receipt of payment for the
goods or services from the customer from which the commission was
generated.

Compiled from the Nebraska Legislature official statutes as in force
on the snapshot date. Not an official edition.
