Nebraska Revised Statutes, Nebraska Wage Payment and Collection Act.
Fixture excerpt of sections 48-1231, 48-1232, and 48-1234.

48-1231. Employee; claim for wages or unlawful retaliation or
discrimination; suit; judgment; costs and attorney's fees.
(1) An employee having a claim for wages which are not paid within
thirty days of the regular payday designated or agreed upon may
institute suit for such unpaid wages in the proper court. If an
employee establishes a claim and secures judgment on the claim, such
employee shall be entitled to recover the full amount of the judgment
and all costs of such suit, including reasonable attorney's fees. If
the cause is taken to an appellate court and the employee recovers a
judgment, the appellate court shall award reasonable attorney's fees to
the employee. If the employee fails to recover a judgment in excess of
the amount that may have been tendered within thirty days of the regular
payday by an employer, such employee shall not recover the attorney's
fees provided by this subsection. If the court finds that no reasonable
dispute existed as to the fact that wages were owed or as to the amount
of such wages, the court may order the employee to pay the employer's
attorney's fees and costs of the action as assessed by the court.

Source includes Laws 2026, LB847, § 16. Effective Date: July 18, 2026.

48-1232. Employee; claim; judgment; additional recovery from employer;
when.
If an employee establishes a claim and secures judgment on such
claim under subsection (1) of section 48-1231: (1) An amount equal to
the judgment may be recovered from the employer; or (2) if the
nonpayment of wages is found to be willful, an amount equal to two times
the amount of unpaid wages shall be recovered from the employer. Any
amount recovered pursuant to subdivision (1) or (2) of this section
shall be remitted to the State Treasurer for distribution in accordance
with Article VII, section 5, of the Constitution of Nebraska.

Nebraska Supreme Court: this section should not be invoked where there
is a reasonable dispute as to the fact that wages are owed or as to the
amount of the wages. Morris v. Rochester Midland Corp., 259 Neb. 870,
612 N.W.2d 921 (2000).

48-1234. Commissioner of Labor; citation; notice of penalty.
(2) The administrative penalty shall be not more than five hundred
dollars in the case of a first violation and not more than five thousand
dollars in the case of a second or subsequent violation.
(3) The employer has fifteen working days after the date of the
citation or penalty to contest such citation or penalty.

Compiled from the Nebraska Legislature official statutes as in force
on the snapshot date. Not an official edition.
