Alaska Statutes § 34.03.070. Security deposits and prepaid rent.
Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. 2025 Alaska Statutes.
Fixture excerpt for Fidryn research. Snapshot 2026-09-17.

(a) Except as provided in (h) of this section, a landlord may not demand or
receive prepaid rent or a security deposit, however denominated, in an amount
or value in excess of two months' periodic rent. This section does not apply to
rental units where the rent exceeds $2,000 a month.

(b) Upon termination of the tenancy, property or money held by the landlord as
prepaid rent or as a security deposit may be applied to the payment of accrued
rent and the amount of damages that the landlord has suffered by reason of the
tenant's noncompliance with AS 34.03.120. The accrued rent and damages
must be itemized by the landlord in a written notice mailed to the tenant's last
known address within the time limit prescribed by (g) of this section, together
with the amount due the tenant. In this subsection, "damages"
(1) means deterioration of the premises and, if applicable, of the contents of
the premises;
(2) does not include deterioration
(A) that is the result of normal wear and tear;
(B) caused by the landlord's failure to prepare for expected conditions or by
the landlord's failure to comply with an obligation of the landlord imposed by
this chapter.

(c) All money paid to the landlord by the tenant as prepaid rent or as a security
deposit in a lease or rental agreement shall be promptly deposited by the
landlord, wherever practicable, in a trust account in a bank, savings and loan
association, or licensed escrow agent, and the landlord shall provide to the
tenant the terms and conditions under which the prepaid rent or security
deposit or portions of them may be withheld by the landlord. The landlord may
not commingle prepaid rent and security deposits with other funds.

(d) If the landlord wilfully fails to comply with (b) of this section, the tenant
may recover an amount not to exceed twice the actual amount withheld.

(e) This section does not preclude a landlord or tenant from recovering other
damages to which either may be entitled under this chapter.

(f) The holder of the landlord's interest in the premises at the time of the
termination of the tenancy is bound by this section.

(g) If the landlord or tenant gives notice that complies with AS 34.03.290, the
landlord shall mail the written notice and refund required by (b) of this section
within 14 days after the tenancy is terminated and possession is delivered by
the tenant, except the landlord shall have 30 days after the tenancy is
terminated to mail the refund if costs are deducted for damages that the
landlord has suffered because of the tenant's noncompliance with AS 34.03.120.
If the tenant does not give notice that complies with AS 34.03.290, the landlord
shall mail the written notice and refund required by (b) of this section within
30 days after the tenancy is terminated, possession is delivered by the tenant,
or the landlord becomes aware that the dwelling unit is abandoned. If the
landlord does not know the mailing address of the tenant, but knows or has
reason to know how to contact the tenant to give the notice required by (b) of
this section, the landlord shall make a reasonable effort to deliver the notice
and refund to the tenant.

(h) Notwithstanding the limitation on the amount of prepaid rent or security
deposit in (a) of this section, a landlord may demand or receive an additional
security deposit from a tenant who has a pet on the premises that is not a
service animal. The additional security deposit
(1) may not exceed the periodic rent for one month; and
(2) shall be accounted for separately from prepaid rent or a security deposit
received under (a) of this section and may be applied only to the amount of
damages that are directly related to the pet of the tenant.

(i) In this section,
(1) "normal wear and tear" means deterioration that occurs from the intended
use of the rental unit and without negligence, carelessness, accident, misuse,
or abuse of the premises or contents by the tenant, members of the household
of the tenant, or the invitees or guests of the tenant;
(2) "service animal" means an animal that is individually trained to do work or
perform tasks that are directly related to and for the benefit of an individual
with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or
other mental disability.

Not an official edition.
