West Virginia Code § 21-5-4 (fixture excerpt).
Wage Payment and Collection Act. Current text as published by the
West Virginia Legislature, including the 2015 next-regular-payday
timing and two-times liquidated-damages measure (S.B. 12, effective
June 11, 2015) and later employer-provided-property amendments
(H.B. 2546, effective May 15, 2018; S.B. 245, effective June 9, 2022).

§21-5-4. Cash orders; employees separated from payroll before
paydays; employer provided property.

(a) In lieu of lawful money of the United States, any person, firm,
or corporation may compensate employees for services by cash order
which may include checks, direct deposits, payroll cards, or money
orders on banks convenient to the place of employment where suitable
arrangements have been made for the cashing of the checks by
employees or deposit of funds for employees for the full amount of
wages.

(b) Whenever a person, firm, or corporation discharges an employee,
or whenever an employee quits or resigns from employment, the person,
firm or corporation shall pay the employee's wages due for work that
the employee performed prior to the separation of employment on or
before the next regular payday on which the wages would otherwise be
due and payable: Provided, That fringe benefits, as defined in
section one of this article, that are provided an employee pursuant
to an agreement between the employee and employer and that are due,
but pursuant to the terms of the agreement, are to be paid at a
future date or upon additional conditions which are ascertainable are
not subject to this subsection and are not payable on or before the
next regular payday, but shall be paid according to the terms of the
agreement. For purposes of this section, "business day" means any
day other than Saturday, Sunday, or any legal holiday as set forth
in §2-2-1 of this code.

(c) Payment under this section may be made in person in any manner
permissible under section three of this article, through the regular
pay channels or, if requested by the employee, by mail. If the
employee requests that payment under this section be made by mail,
that payment shall be considered to have been made on the date the
mailed payment is postmarked.

(d) When work of any employee is suspended as a result of a labor
dispute, or when an employee for any reason whatsoever is laid off,
the person, firm or corporation shall pay in full to the employee
not later than the next regular payday, either through the regular
pay channels or by mail if requested by the employee, wages earned
at the time of suspension or layoff.

(e) If a person, firm, or corporation fails to pay an employee wages
as required under this section, the person, firm, or corporation, in
addition to the amount which was unpaid when due, is liable to the
employee for two times that unpaid amount as liquidated damages.
This section regulates the timing of wage payments upon separation
from employment and not whether overtime pay is due. Liquidated
damages that can be awarded under this section are not available to
employees claiming they were misclassified as exempt from overtime
under state and federal wage and hour laws. Every employee shall
have a lien and all other rights and remedies for the protection and
enforcement of his or her salary or wages, as he or she would have
been entitled to had he or she rendered service therefor in the
manner as last employed; except that, for the purpose of liquidated
damages, the failure shall not be deemed to continue after the date
of the filing of a petition in bankruptcy with respect to the
employer if he or she is adjudicated bankrupt upon the petition.

(f)(1) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary,
if at the time of discharge or resignation, an employee fails to
return employer provided property, as set forth by the parties under
paragraph (C) of this subsection, the employer may withhold, deduct,
or divert an employee's final wages, in an amount not to exceed the
replacement cost of the employer provided property that was not
returned as set forth under paragraph (C) of this subsection, to
recover the replacement cost of the employer provided property,
subject to the following:

(A) The employer provided property had been provided to the employee
in the course of, and for use in, the employer's business;

(B) The employer provided property has a value in excess of $100;

(C) The employee had signed a written agreement with the employer
contemporaneous with the obtaining of the employer provided property,
or signed and ratified an agreement if property had been provided
prior to the effective date of this provision; and such agreement
contained, at a minimum, specified itemization and replacement cost,
a statement that the items are to be returned immediately upon
discharge or resignation, and acknowledgment that replacement cost
may be recovered from final wages;

(D) The employer shall notify the employee in writing at the time of
discharge or resignation by personal service, or as soon thereafter
as practicable by personal service or via certified mail with return
receipt requested, as to the replacement cost of the items and make
a demand for return of such employer provided property within a
certain date, not to exceed 10 business days of the notification; and

(E) The employer shall relinquish the withheld, deducted, or diverted
wages to the employee if the employee returns the employer's property
within the deadline specified in paragraph (D). Uniforms returned
within three years of their issuance shall be deemed acceptable in
their current condition. Replacement tools are deemed to be the
property of the employee and are not subject to this section.

(3) If an employee objects to the replacement cost amount to be
deducted by an employer, and provides such written objection within
the deadline specified in paragraph (D), subsection (1) of this
subsection, then the employer shall place the controverted amount in
an interest bearing escrow account: Provided, That if a civil action
or equitable relief is not brought by the employee for the claimed
amount within three months, the employee shall forfeit the amount in
escrow and such money shall revert to the employer.

(5) This provision shall not apply to employer-employee business
relationships that are subject to, and governed by, collective
bargaining agreements.

As used in §21-5-4, "wages" includes then accrued fringe benefits
capable of calculation and payable directly to an employee. See
§21-5-1(c), (l).

The pre-2015 72-hour discharge deadline is not current law.

Research fixture. Not legal advice. Not an official edition.
