West Virginia Code § 21-5-4a (fixture excerpt).
Wage Payment and Collection Act safe harbor. Enacted by H.B. 2646
(2020 Regular Session), effective June 4, 2020.

§21-5-4a. Safe Harbor.

(a) An employee, in bringing an action for the underpayment or
nonpayment of wages and fringe benefits due upon the employee's
separation of employment as contemplated by §21-5-4 of this code,
is not entitled to seek liquidated damages or attorney's fees from
an employer without first making a written demand, as defined in
subsection (c) of this section, to the employer seeking the payment
of any alleged underpayment or nonpayment as set forth in this
section: Provided, That upon separation or with the issuance of the
final paycheck, the employer shall notify the employee in writing
who the employer's authorized representative is and where to send
a written demand by both e-mail and regular mail: Provided however,
that if the employer fails to provide the required written notice,
the employee is not required to comply with the provisions of this
section. Upon receiving a written demand, the employer has seven
calendar days from receipt to correct the alleged underpayment or
nonpayment of the wages and fringe benefits due. If, after seven
days, the employer has not corrected the alleged underpayment or
nonpayment, or paid all undisputed amounts due to the employee, the
employee may seek liquidated damages and attorney's fees. Nothing
in this section prohibits the employee from presenting a claim under
this article without making a written demand to the employer.

(b) In a class action lawsuit brought under this article for the
underpayment or nonpayment of wages and fringe benefits due upon
the employees' separation of employment, the employee, prior to the
filing of the class action, shall submit a written demand stating
it is a demand for all other employees similarly situated for the
underpayment or nonpayment of their wages and fringe benefits:
Provided, That if only the underpayment or nonpayment of wages and
fringe benefits of the named employee is corrected, a class action
may proceed for the underpayment or nonpayment of wages and fringe
benefits still owed to the other members of the class.

(c) For purposes of this section, a "written demand" means any
writing, including e-mail, from or on behalf of an employee stating
that the employer has not paid all of the wages or fringe benefits
which the employee is owed.

Research fixture. Not legal advice. Not an official edition.
