Tennessee Code Annotated § 66-28-301. Security deposit.
Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. Fixture excerpt.

(a) All landlords of residential property requiring security deposits prior to occupancy
are required to deposit all tenants' security deposits in an account used only for that
purpose, in any bank or other lending institution subject to regulation by the state or
any agency of the United States government.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b)(2)(B), the tenant shall have the
right to inspect the premises to determine the tenant's liability for physical damages
that are the basis for any charge against the security deposit.

(b)(1)(A) Upon request by the landlord for a tenant to vacate or within five (5) days
after receipt by the landlord of written notice of the tenant's intent to vacate, the
landlord may provide notice to the tenant of the tenant's right to be present at the
inspection of the premises. The landlord may require the inspection to be after the
tenant has completely vacated the premises; provided, that the inspection shall be
either on the day the tenant completely vacates the premises or within four (4)
calendar days of the tenant vacating the premises.

(c) No landlord shall be entitled to retain any portion of a security deposit if the
security deposit was not deposited in an account as required by subsection (a) and
a listing of damages is not provided as required by subsection (b).

(e) Should a tenant vacate the premises with unpaid rent or other amounts due and
owing, the landlord may remove the deposit from the account and apply the moneys
to the unpaid debt.

(f) In the event the tenant leaves not owing rent and having any refund due, the
landlord shall send notification to the last known or reasonably determinable address,
of the amount of any refund due the tenant. In the event the landlord shall not have
received a response from the tenant within sixty (60) days from the sending of such
notification, the landlord may remove the deposit from the account and retain it free
from any claim of the tenant or any person claiming in the tenant's behalf.

(g) Costs of any physical damage to the premises may only be recovered if the
damage was discovered by the landlord prior to the earlier of:
(1) Thirty (30) days after the tenant vacated or abandoned the premises; or
(2) Seven (7) days after a new tenant takes possession of the premises.

(h) Notwithstanding subsection (a), all landlords of residential property shall be
required to notify their tenants at the time such persons sign the lease and submit
the security deposit, of the location of the account required to be maintained pursuant
to this section, but shall not be required to provide the account number to such persons.

The section does not impose a dollar cap on the amount of a security deposit.
Current through the 2025 Tennessee Code compilation as checked 2026-09-17.
Not an official edition.
