Landlord and Tenant Act of 1951, 68 P.S. § 250.512 (fixture excerpt).
Added 1968, May 3, P.L. 107, No. 56; amended 1972, Dec. 29, P.L. 1698,
No. 363. Westlaw unofficial Purdon's compilation current through Act 51
of the 2026 Regular Session. No later amendment to this section located.

§ 250.512. Recovery of improperly held escrow funds

(a) Every landlord shall within thirty days of termination of a lease or
upon surrender and acceptance of the leasehold premises, whichever first
occurs, provide a tenant with a written list of any damages to the
leasehold premises for which the landlord claims the tenant is liable.
Delivery of the list shall be accompanied by payment of the difference
between any sum deposited in escrow, including any unpaid interest
thereon, for the payment of damages to the leasehold premises and the
actual amount of damages to the leasehold premises caused by the tenant.
Nothing in this section shall preclude the landlord from refusing to
return the escrow fund, including any unpaid interest thereon, for
nonpayment of rent or for the breach of any other condition in the lease
by the tenant.

(b) Any landlord who fails to provide a written list within thirty days
as required in subsection (a), above, shall forfeit all rights to withhold
any portion of sums held in escrow, including any unpaid interest thereon,
or to bring suit against the tenant for damages to the leasehold premises.

(c) If the landlord fails to pay the tenant the difference between the
sum deposited, including any unpaid interest thereon, and the actual
damages to the leasehold premises caused by the tenant within thirty days
after termination of the lease or surrender and acceptance of the
leasehold premises, the landlord shall be liable in assumpsit to double
the amount by which the sum deposited in escrow, including any unpaid
interest thereon, exceeds the actual damages to the leasehold premises
caused by the tenant as determined by any court of record or court not of
record having jurisdiction in civil actions at law. The burden of proof
of actual damages caused by the tenant to the leasehold premises shall be
on the landlord.

(d) Any attempted waiver of this section by a tenant by contract or
otherwise shall be void and unenforceable.

(e) Failure of the tenant to provide the landlord with his new address in
writing upon termination of the lease or upon surrender and acceptance of
the leasehold premises shall relieve the landlord from any liability under
this section.

(f) This section shall apply only to residential leaseholds and not to
commercial leaseholds.

Double the excess over actual damages is a court determination, not a
Boolean. Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
