Landlord and Tenant Act of 1951, 68 P.S. §§ 250.511a and 250.511b
(fixture excerpt). Added 1972, Dec. 29, P.L. 1698, No. 363. Westlaw
unofficial Purdon's compilation current through Act 51 of the 2026
Regular Session. No later amendment to these sections located.

§ 250.511a. Escrow funds limited

(a) No landlord may require a sum in excess of two months' rent to be
deposited in escrow for the payment of damages to the leasehold premises
and/or default in rent thereof during the first year of any lease.

(b) During the second and subsequent years of the lease or during any
renewal of the original lease the amount required to be deposited may not
exceed one month's rent.

(c) If, during the third or subsequent year of a lease, or during any
renewal after the expiration of two years of tenancy, the landlord
requires the one month's rent escrow provided herein, upon termination of
the lease, or on surrender and acceptance of the leasehold premises, the
escrow funds together with interest shall be returned to the tenant in
accordance with sections 511.2 and 512.

(d) Whenever a tenant has been in possession of premises for a period of
five years or greater, any increase or increases in rent shall not
require a concomitant increase in any security deposit.

(e) This section applies only to the rental of residential property.

(f) Any attempted waiver of this section by a tenant by contract or
otherwise shall be void and unenforceable.

§ 250.511b. Interest on escrow funds held more than two years

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, all funds over one
hundred dollars ($100) deposited with a lessor to secure the execution of
a rental agreement on residential property in accordance with section
511.1 and pursuant to any lease newly executed or reexecuted after the
effective date of this act shall be deposited in an escrow account of an
institution regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board, Comptroller of the Currency, or the Pennsylvania Department
of Banking. When any funds are deposited in any escrow account,
interest-bearing or noninterest-bearing, the lessor shall thereupon
notify in writing each of the tenants making any such deposit, giving the
name and address of the banking institution in which such deposits are
held, and the amount of such deposits.

(b) Whenever any money is required to be deposited in an interest-bearing
escrow savings account, in accordance with section 511.1, then the lessor
shall be entitled to receive as administrative expenses, a sum equivalent
to one per cent per annum upon the security money so deposited, which
shall be in lieu of all other administrative and custodial expenses. The
balance of the interest paid shall be the money of the tenant making the
deposit and will be paid to said tenant annually upon the anniversary date
of the commencement of his lease.

(c) The provisions of this section shall apply only after the second
anniversary of the deposit of escrow funds.

Fixture text for Fidryn research. Not an official edition.
