Indiana Code chapter 32-31-3 (Indiana Code 2026 fixture excerpt).
Security Deposits. Recodified P.L.2-2002, SEC.16. Still current through
the 2026 regular session of the 124th General Assembly.

IC 32-31-3-9 "Security deposit" defined
Sec. 9. (a) As used in this chapter, "security deposit" means a
deposit paid by a tenant to the landlord or the landlord's agent to be
held for all or a part of the term of the rental agreement to secure
performance of any obligation of the tenant under the rental
agreement.
(b) The term includes:
(1) a required prepayment of rent other than the first full rental
payment period of the lease agreement;
(2) a sum required to be paid as rent in any rental period in
excess of the average rent for the term; and
(3) any other amount of money or property returnable to the
tenant on condition of return of the rental unit by the tenant in
a condition as required by the rental agreement.
(c) The term does not include an amount paid for an option to
purchase under a lease with option to purchase, unless it is shown
that the intent was to evade this chapter, or an amount paid as a
subscription for or purchase of a membership in a cooperative
housing association incorporated under Indiana law.

IC 32-31-3-12 Return of deposits; deductions; liability
Sec. 12. (a) Upon termination of a rental agreement, a landlord
shall return to the tenant the security deposit minus any amount
applied to:
(1) the payment of accrued rent;
(2) the amount of damages that the landlord has suffered or will
reasonably suffer by reason of the tenant's noncompliance with
law or the rental agreement; and
(3) unpaid utility or sewer charges that the tenant is obligated to
pay under the rental agreement;
all as itemized by the landlord with the amount due in a written
notice that is delivered to the tenant not more than forty-five (45)
days after termination of the rental agreement and delivery of
possession. The landlord is not liable under this chapter until the
tenant supplies the landlord in writing with a mailing address to
which to deliver the notice and amount prescribed by this
subsection. Unless otherwise agreed, a tenant is not entitled to apply
a security deposit to rent.
(b) If a landlord fails to comply with subsection (a), a tenant may
recover all of the security deposit due the tenant and reasonable
attorney's fees.
(c) This section does not preclude the landlord or tenant from
recovering other damages to which either is entitled.
(d) The owner of the dwelling unit at the time of the termination
of the rental agreement is bound by this section.

IC 32-31-3-13 Use of deposits
Sec. 13. A security deposit may be used only for the following
purposes:
(1) To reimburse the landlord for actual damages to the rental
unit or any ancillary facility that are not the result of ordinary
wear and tear.
(2) To pay the landlord for:
(A) all rent in arrearage under the rental agreement; and
(B) rent due for premature termination of the rental
agreement by the tenant.
(3) To pay for the last payment period of a residential rental
agreement if a written agreement between the landlord and the
tenant stipulates that the security deposit will serve as the last
payment of rent due.
(4) To reimburse the landlord for utility or sewer charges paid
by the landlord that are:
(A) the obligation of the tenant under the rental agreement;
and
(B) unpaid by the tenant.

IC 32-31-3-14 Notice of damages; refund of remaining deposits
Sec. 14. Not more than forty-five (45) days after the termination
of occupancy, a landlord shall mail to a tenant an itemized list of
damages claimed for which the security deposit may be used under
section 13 of this chapter. The list must set forth:
(1) the estimated cost of repair for each damaged item; and
(2) the amounts and lease on which the landlord intends to
assess the tenant.
The landlord shall include with the list a check or money order for
the difference between the damages claimed and the amount of the
security deposit held by the landlord.

IC 32-31-3-15 Remittance of full deposit
Sec. 15. Failure by a landlord to provide notice of damages under
section 14 of this chapter constitutes agreement by the landlord that
no damages are due, and the landlord must remit to the tenant
immediately the full security deposit.

IC 32-31-3-16 Liability for withheld deposits
Sec. 16. A landlord who fails to comply with sections 14 and 15
of this chapter is liable to the tenant in an amount equal to the part
of the deposit withheld by the landlord plus reasonable attorney's
fees and court costs.

IC 32-31-3-17 Waiver of chapter
Sec. 17. A waiver of this chapter by a landlord or tenant is void.

This chapter sets no statewide dollar cap on the deposit and does
not impose a statutory multiplier for "bad faith." Wear-and-tear
versus actual damage remains a determination. Not an official edition.
